The Cross of Life and the Nodes
The Cross of Life 

In 1992, when I first began to teach Human Design professionally, long before there were all the various synthetic tools that have been developed over the years in order to make analysis something that is easier for anyone to be able to do and to be able to grasp, I began with the simplest construct I had that I had been given in my experience. That construct had a name. It was something that I taught anyone who wanted to go beyond having a reading. It was called The Cross of Life. And this is not to be confused with Incarnation Cross. It was just a term. And it was a term that was something that was directly connected to the way in which I was instructed to see the way in which life itself operates, and to begin to understand the deep, deep nature of what it is to be in a dualistic environment, to be in a binary vehicle, to be in a life that is dominated by the maia‟s binary construct of “this” and “that.” 

The Vertical: The Sun/Earth 

There are several things that are interesting. The first thing I‟d like you to think about is that this cross is based on a kind of vertical and a kind of horizontal. The vertical of this cross is the Sun/Earth binary, the Sun/Earth polarity. If you look at all the calculations in the rave chart you will see that there are only two calculations that are automatically repeated and are opposites of each other. In other words, the Sun/Earth is always exactly opposite each other in the wheel, and the North Node and the South Node are exactly opposite each other in the wheel They have a very, very unique relationship with each other. As a matter of fact, the way in which the Nodes are calculated, they represent extremes on the elliptic of the Moon in its relationship to the orbit of the Earth around the Sun. It is the intersecting of these two lines of geometry that lead to the North Node and the South Node existing as points that we can calculate. There is this profound relationship between these two binaries. And within the context of my metaphor, the Sun/Earth represents the vertical binary, the vertical arm of this Cross of Life. 

Now, what makes the Sun/Earth so significant is that it represents 70% of our programming. That is, 70% of the density of the neutrino ocean that we live in is generated millisecond-by millisecond as a by-product of the life and the fusion that takes place within the Sun. So 70% of our programming, 70% of what we are, the very nature of what we call “purpose,” is rooted directly in this programming of the Sun to its mirror, to its opposition, the Earth. 

The Horizontal: The Nodes
 
Now, intersecting that line of geometry, intersecting that vertical consciousness stream is the horizontal movement, this horizontal elliptic of the Nodes— the South Node and the North Node. Now, there is something very specific. First of all, these are real binaries in the sense that they are very different from each other. That is, the Sun and the Earth are physical objects that are exactly opposite each other. And the South Node and the North Node are non-physically objects; these are positions that are exactly opposite each other.
 
The Sun and the Earth move counterclockwise through the wheel. And in moving counterclockwise through the wheel, they represent the existential imprinting of life moment-by-moment in the now, this imprinting. The Nodes, as a position opposition, move clockwise in the wheel. It is only the Nodes that are directly connected to the precession of the equinox and are connected to the larger cycles themselves.

The Nodes and the Eastern Tradition
Where the Sun/Earth binary is directly connected to our Western tradition, the South Node/North Node binary is directly connected to Eastern tradition. Again, we have this classic example in this Cross of Life of the intersection of these two themes together.

In the Eastern tradition, the South Node and the North Node have had a number of names: The head of the dragon (North Node), the tail of the dragon (South Node). But also, interestingly enough is, at least in terms of my own name, the Rahu as the North Node and the Ketu as the South Node. More than that, Ketu is dead and Rahu is alive—from death through life to death through life. In other words, it is a continuity or a movement of the incarnative process and not the incarnative process, but the incarnated process; in other words, the life process.

Characteristics
In this life process, in terms of the way in which we operate in analysis, we‟re looking at a number of things in Design. Basically, the life is lost in what we call "characteristics.‟ The goal in life is to transcend characteristics and to find one‟s true role. Now, characteristics are the domain of the Bodygraph. In other words, when you look at your design, you‟re looking at your characteristics, that is, your differentiated characteristics.

The whole challenge for you in your process, the only way in which you can leave or transcend the Bodygraph and approach your purpose correctly, is you have to deal with the characteristics. The whole theme of, and the teaching of, Human Design is that we teach strategy and authority in order for a being to come to grips with the power of characteristics in their life, and to ultimately be able to transcend them by operating correctly as themselves.

The reward for transcending your characteristics is that you find your role. One of my favorite analogies or metaphors is that I like to use the concept of the movie. If you're looking at characteristics, what you're really seeing are those beings who are in the frame of any scene, but have no part. In other words, they are simply characteristics. They may be loud or slow, they may be this or that, they may be characteristics but they don't actually have a role. These are the kind of people who never say anything in a scene; they‟re simply in the background.

But the moment you have, within the context of this metaphor of the movie, somebody who is more than characteristics, in other words they are given a role; it's only when you have a role that purpose is possible. When you look at any frame of any film, when you look at the background characters, you cannot imagine what their purpose is. You can't imagine their purpose because all you're getting is characteristics; you‟re not getting their role. And it is only through role that purpose can be achieved.

Purpose and Role
Within the context of Design your purpose is found through the Sun/Earth binary. There lies your Profile. And of course, in this Profile lies the potential for you to be able to fulfill that purpose because this gives you your true role in life. This gives you the archetype, or the generic, of what your role is and then you, as a unique differentiated being operating correctly, can fulfill that role.

But the Nodes have a special function. The function of the Nodes lays the dynamic for how you're going to move from characteristic to role because they set the stage. And in setting the stage, literally, they provide the background, the environment in which you emerge from your characteristics into your role.

The Cross of Life—to fulfill your purpose; but, the fulfillment of your purpose is done on a specific stage through specific continuity of scenes. It is this setting of the stage that the Nodes bring.

The Nodes Set the Stage

The Nodes of the Moon are the background. They set the stage. Not only do they set the stage in the sense that they provide the scenery, but more than that, they provide the scenery and the forces that are going to populate that scenery. They provide the background characteristics. They provide the forces within the context of the environment you are going to meet in your process.
To really understand your Nodes is to recognize the world you are intended to deal with, the environment you are intended to deal with, the kind of people who are meant to be there in the background of your life, and the kind of forces that are there to provide you with exactly the right connections, the right interaction, the right education, and the right whatever because they belong in your scene.

Think about what it means that you have an opportunity to fulfill your purpose. But the potential to fulfill your purpose has to be seen against the background because it’s in that background, it’s in that environment, that your purpose has to be achieved. And the moment you’re looking at the Nodes, as you will see as we go through this adventure of looking at the 32 polarities in the wheel and looking at the 32 Nodal environments that emerge, is to begin to see that the potential for anyone to fulfill their purpose is directly related to the environment in which it is intended to be fulfilled. This is The Cross of Life. There is no way to fulfill the potential of one without fulfilling the potential of the other because they are deeply connected to each other.

In the very beginning when I began my process, there was this deep understanding of this Cross. The deep understanding that this was the skeleton of anyone‟s life. You could see the basic essence of what they were intended to live out as a purpose. You could see that purpose in their Incarnation Cross, you could see that purpose in their Profile, and you could see the potential of it in terms of its consistency, or not, in the way in which that Cross operated within the dynamics of the characteristics of the Bodygraph. But more than that, by understanding the Nodes, by understanding this scene that is being set, the stage upon which this purpose can be fulfilled, you could immediately hone in directly to the essence of what this life was intended to be about, and who was supposed to be there in this life.

For me, it is ironic that after all of these years of teaching that I am at the beginning of a new 18 year cycle in the process of being a messenger for this knowledge. At the beginning of this new cycle, I return to the most fundamental teaching that I brought at the very beginning of my career. It’s not, in any sense, a going backwards. I can see so clearly how this is the beginning in a spiral. It’s a new beginning because today with the depth we have in the knowledge of Human Design, with the deeper understanding that exists in the mechanics and the ability through synthesis to be able to explain to others their basic strategy, the secret and the accessibility of their inner authority, that now to return to this very basic concept is to come to the simple core of understanding our lives and our purpose.

The 45th and 26th Nodes
The 45th Gate: Materialism

This is a Nodal environment that is deeply tribal. That is, you’re dealing with two tribal gates: the 26th gate, The Taming Power of the Great out of the Heart Center, and the 45th gate, Gathering Together, out of the Throat Center, the voice, the expression of the tribe, the gate of the king, the queen, the pasha. When we’re dealing with the 45th gate as a Nodal environment, this is the naturally and generally beneficial attraction of like forces. 

One of the most interesting things about this environment is how possessive this environment is. The 45th gate is the voice that says, “I have,” or “I don’t have.” This is a Nodal environment where that is the voice of the people. The voice of the people are the ones who are shouting, “I have,” but most of the people are shouting, “I don’t have.” It’s: The natural and generally beneficial attraction of like forces. Well, yes it’s beneficial, but it doesn’t mean that that is what the environment is, that the environment in fact is an environment working on the possibility that the attraction of like forces can be generally and mutually and naturally beneficial. 

So, when you’re dealing with the 45 as a Nodal environment, this is the gate of the gatherer. This is all about the money line. It’s all about materialism. So you have a very, very material environment. And in that material environment there are the haves and the have-nots. One of the things to recognize is that it’s always the have-nots that are always seeking the natural and generally beneficial union that ultimately can transform their material place. But again, if you have the 45 as a Node, then you have to see that you’re going to be dealing with a material environment. The materialism is going to be a theme that is there and particularly the whole question of who possesses what, and the tensions in terms of that environment over the basic materials necessary in life.

The 26th Gate: Aggressiveness

The other side of the polarity is the 26th gate, The Taming Power of the Great, the gate of the egoist. This is: The maximization of the power of memory applied to the nurturing of continuity. Now, one of the things about this maximization of the power of memory is that it is an environment where there is a great deal of potential aggressiveness, and potential aggressiveness in the sense of trying to shape the way in which the community operates. 

The way in which a community is shaped can be shaped in a number of ways. For example, the 26th gate can bring a great deal of propaganda, salesmanship, that kind of influencing transmission to impact the way in which the community thinks about itself, or thinks about the things that it needs. And remember, in this polarity we have materialism as one of the deepest themes. 

The other thing is to be very clear about the 26th gate and its role as a defender in the immune system. That is, the 26th gate is related to the thymus gland that designs our immune system in the first years of our lives, and it is also the T cell. The T cells are literally the soldiers of the immune system that go out and protect us against those invading bacteria and viruses and so forth. 

It’s very important to see that an environment that has the 26th gate also has an environment that has the potential of violence, the potential of physical coercion. And here is the potential of coming into a Nodal environment that can be very aggressive, that can be filled with a great deal of lack of value. Remember that the ego, the Heart Center, the majority of humanity has this center open. It means that the majority of humanity suffers from the not-self strategy of the open Heart Center which is not seeing themselves as being worthy. They always have to prove themselves, not having in their lives consistent will power. So those themes are themes that you can apply to the environment.

Remember that it’s so important to realize the difference between Profile and Nodes. Not just Profile and Nodes, but to recognize that the Nodes are different from any other activations in the chart. All the activations in the chart, with the exception of the Nodes, come from physical objects that are physically interfering with the neutrino stream and changing the information. The thing to recognize about the Nodes is that they are positional. So when you’re looking at your Nodal environment, you’re not looking at a physical imprint of you. You’re looking at your connection to a larger imprint, the imprint of an environment. 

It’s not even that, it’s not to say that in your environment there is exclusively only the 26/45. What it’s saying is, that’s what you’re going to be attuned to in the environment around you. You are going to be attuned to the ones who have or have not. You’re going to be attuned to the ones who try to coerce or change the way in which the community sees itself. But who you are and the potential of who you are is fulfilled within that environment.

The 35th and 5th Nodes
The 35th Gate: Need for Interaction

When we’re dealing with the 35th gate we have the gate of Progress. And the gate of Progress is a key element of the human experiential way. It is, after all, the gate of change and is part of the channel of transitoriness. When we look at the 35th gate what we’re looking at is: By design, progress cannot exist in a vacuum and is dependent on interaction. Think about this within the Nodal context. Remember that the Nodes represent a stage upon which the life is lived out. That is, the individual life is lived out with the potential of fulfilling the purpose through that; that is, living out one’s Profile.

But what that means is that all around you is going to be this frequency, the frequency of the 35. And this is all about the need for interaction. Not simply a need, but a dependency on interaction. So you’re going to have an environment in which there is not enough interaction. As long as there’s not enough interaction, then you don’t ultimately get to progress. And it’s again one of the things to understand about the Nodal environment, that the expression of that Nodal environment through the gate, that what you’re looking at through that gate, is a potential that works both ways. 

In other words, yes there will be those who will progress because they have the necessary interaction, but the environment is going to be filled with many people that are looking for interaction or are dependent on interaction because without it they will not find their progress. Now of course, that doesn’t mean that if you’re carrying this Node, that’s you. What it means is that is a world in which you have the greatest potential to be able to fulfill what is your purpose in this life.

The 5th Gate: Waiting

Now when we go to the other side of the polarity to the 5th gate, we get to the gate of Waiting. But the 5th gate in the Sacral Center has an extraordinary importance in all of Design. When I say all of Design I don’t mean simply Human Design, but the Design of Forms. All forms carry the 5th gate or the potential of the 5th gate, that the 15/5, the channel of being in the flow is a universal force. So when we’re dealing with the 5th gate, we are dealing with the inherent pattern of things. When you’re looking at this gate, the structure is the fundamental attunement to natural rhythms—waiting as an active state of awareness.

Now of course, the fact is that if waiting is the active state of awareness, then not waiting is going to be what the general environment is going to look like. In other words, there is going to be a background environment through the 5/35 that can seem to be quite chaotic, an environment where no one is waiting, the classic example of a generating theme trying to manifest that nobody is waiting. On the other side of that. in the collective process of the 35, that there is not enough interaction, interaction that is absolutely necessary if progress is going to take place. 

So here you begin to see the world of that being that incarnates with this Nodal configuration is a world where people are not interacting, a world where people are not waiting, this is going to be the background of their life. And at the same time there is going to be the potential in the purpose to recognize that quality of life and also to be able to be of value to others once one has fulfilled one’s process of going beyond your characteristics, honoring your strategy and authority so that you do get to a point where you get to fulfill the purpose of your Profile.

Your environment is something that you’re dependent on. It is the perfect environment. So, if you come in with a 5/35 and all around you you see that people aren’t waiting and people aren’t interacting, you’re in the right place. Now of course, if you’re operating as not-self you can look at that right place and think, “Oh my God I don’t want to be here. This is all wrong. It shouldn’t be like this. Everybody should be aware, and progress should be a natural part of our life process,” and so forth and so on. But the fact is that if you are operating correctly, it’s not so much that you don’t see the potential in the environment, the potential that awareness can bring, the potential that proper interaction can bring, but you’re actually using that environment as a stepping board for the fulfillment of your own unique purpose, whatever that purpose may be.

So the Nodes are something very, very special in our lives. They really do frame the environment for our transformation as beings to an awakened state.

The 16th and 9th Nodes
The 16th Gate: Search for Energy

When we’re looking at the 16th gate, we have the gate of Enthusiasm and this is the gate of skills. It is part of the channel of talent, and it says: The great art of enriching life by the harmonic channeling of energy. One of the things that is so fascinating about this introduction to this gate, if you look very carefully the 16th gate, which is part of the logical process, it suffers from the dilemma of logic. And the dilemma of logic is that it is starved of energy. That’s what we’re really talking about—the great art of enriching life by the harmonic channeling of energy. And the 16th gate is always looking for energy, endlessly looking. 

If you look at the 16th gate and you see it move downwards, it’s moving downwards towards the Spleen, towards the Splenic Center, and the Splenic Center is not a motor in the body. In other words, by accessing the Splenic Center it gains access to the potential of understanding. That is, the potential of the awareness out of the splenic system, its logical awareness, its judgmental awareness, but it still does not provide it with energy. It does not provide it with the potential that can come from energy. And you can see this so much in terms of the nature of skills that a skill by its very nature is something that in order for it to be truly skillful it is the result of repetition and practice. That it is only after endless practice that a skill is finally honed, and that the very practice of it is going to be determined by the availability of energy. 
So when we’re looking at the 16 as a Node, one of the things to understand is everybody’s looking for energy. When I say that, you have to recognize that energy is one of the binary principles. And one of the things about the nature of energy, looking for energy, is that basically what you’re looking for is resources—the food that provides you with the energy to do whatever, and the money that gives you the energy necessary to be able to do whatever. 

In other words, one of the themes of the Nodal 16 is a stage upon which the hunt is for the energy. There’s all this potential floating around, all this potential skillfulness. But everyone is caught up in the energy hunt. Remember, it’s the harmonic channeling of the energy. It’s not even just finding the energy, but it’s finding the right energy, the compatible energy.

The 9th Gate: Focus

When we go to the other side of the polarity to the 9th gate, the 9th gate is a format energy. This is The Taming Power of the Small and it’s a gate of focus and it’s part of the Channel of Concentration. It really is the potential to be determined in one’s focus and to be determined in the focus on detail. Potential can be fulfilled through detailed attention to all pertinent aspects. 

So, here we have a very interesting Nodal environment, a Nodal environment on the one hand through the 16 that there is this search for energy and resources, and on the other hand there is the acceptance that only by cultivating and working with the small in life, the little things in life is detail, is potential really going to be something that is possible.

When you’re dealing with the 9 and the 16 as an environment, as a stage in life, you have to see that in many ways this is a stage of a great deal of material struggle and difficulty. And that simply means that that is part of the stage—the frustration of not being able to have the energy to develop the skills. The malaise of half of the planet is the fact that doing detail isn’t interesting or exciting, but it is the only potential, to keep one’s shoulder to the wheel, to go through all the little things in order to finally achieve success. 

Also, when you’re dealing with Nodal polarities keep something in mind, that this would not be the description of the being that has this in their design. It would be if it was their personality Sun/Earth, if this was part of their Profile. But this is simply stating that this is the environment. Now, how easy it is as not-self to become your environment. In other words, to melt into this background and end up yourself hunting for energy and so forth and so on.

The fact of the matter is you may have this Nodal polarity and be a high energy being with no problem in accessing energy. So, please understand, the Nodes always represent the environment, and more importantly, the perfect environment for you when operating correctly to fulfill your potential and your purpose.

The 20th and 34th Nodes
The 20th Gate: Action

We have already been through one opposition that forms a definition and that was the 43/23.  Now we are dealing with the second opposition in the wheel, and this is the channel 20/34, the Channel of Charisma.  In dealing with this Channel of Charisma, a design where thoughts must be deeds, we are dealing with the only pure example of what is a Manifesting Generator.  In other words, this is the pure Manifesting Generator, the direct connection, the only direct connection that exists between the Sacral and the Throat Center.

Remember that when we’re dealing with a Nodal environment and the Nodal environment is an opposition that forms a definition, you cannot really speak uniquely of one gate process or the other.  You’re dealing with the entire flow that is there in the channel.  The 20th gate is the gate of Contemplation.  It is the only existentialist gate.  It is the gate of the now: Recognition and awareness in the now which transforms understanding into right action.  So one of the things to see about the environment of this is that the environment is always about action, and not necessarily whether the action is right or not, because after all, in order for the action to be right or not, recognition and awareness have to be a part of it.

The 34th Gate: Drive to Survive

If you go to the other side to the 34th gate, we’re dealing with The Power of the Great.  This is an extraordinary gate because here in dealing with the 20/34 we’re dealing with an aspect of what is called integration.  That is, a four-channel system that really is the genetic spine of what it is for us to be human.  It is the root of our capacity to survive in the world.  It is the basic drive to survive.  The 34th gate empowers that through its connection to the 57, the archetype, its connection to the 10th gate, the gate of behavior in which you have the following of one’s convictions, the power to follow one’s convictions as an archetype, and ultimately to be able to do so, and to be able to do so, charismatically.  

In other words, the power of the 34 to the 20 to drive us to activity in the now, one of the great dilemmas of the Manifesting Generator is that its archetype is this enormous pressure to be active in the now.  The power of the 34 is only great when its display or use serves the common good.  Now it’s only great, and the action is only right, and it’s all about the same thing.  It’s about awareness.  
Awareness is the deepest key to understanding this Nodal environment.  In other words, if you come into this life and you come into a 20/34 Nodal environment, you come into an environment that lacks awareness.  It is a world of action not guided.  It is a world of the display of power, but not necessarily or even ever to the benefit of the common good.  In other words, this can be a kind of treadmill environment that one goes into in which there is all of this frustrated attempt at action, and that the frustrated attempt at action leads to the frustrated display of power, and all of that is coming out in the now and none of that is correct because there is not the recognition and awareness.

One of the most fascinating things about these first two oppositions that we’ve looked at that form definition, that is the 43/23 and the 20/34, is that they have a very unique relationship to each other.  The 20/34 is here to be guided.  Remember that this is a Sacral being.  This is a Generator.  And despite the potential that it has within it to manifest, to be able to do things, to be able to actually take right action, that right action can only be a matter of response.  And it’s very, very difficult because this is so individual and it’s individual in the deepest sense.  It is integration/ individual and it’s very difficult to influence these forces because they’re not designed to be influenced.  It’s exceedingly difficult to tell them what to do.  

It’s very difficult to tell a 20/34 to stop initiating.  But from a 43/23 there is always the possibility from the resonance in the circuitries, the resonance in the configuration.  That is, they are oppositions that form definition and they have a deep relationship to each other.  The 20/34 needs guidance, and the guidance is not control.  The guidance isn’t even direction.  The guidance is the ability to present the 20/34 with options that they can respond to.  And through that response, through operating correctly, they can fulfill their potential.  

But remember, as a Nodal environment you’re coming into a Nodal environment where there is incorrect action and incorrect displays of power, and it’s on that stage that you have to fulfill your purpose if this is your Nodal polarity.


The 23rd and 43rd Nodes
The 23rd Gate: Splitting Apart

Here we’re dealing with the first of the oppositions that lead to a definition in the Bodygraph. The 43/23 is the Channel of Structuring, and it is a design of individuality from genius to freak. There is no way that you can differentiate Nodal oppositions that form definitions. This is a very, very fixed, set stage. It isn’t this movement of one to the other. It is, in fact, a continuum that is simply there. And it’s very important to recognize this. 

It also means that one enters into a life in which there is a very fixed stage in life, that the environment is one that is going to be deeply consistent. Now, if you’re not operating correctly that can be something that is very uncomfortable and something you try to escape from over and over again. And this is trying to escape ultimately from yourself.

Establishing a New Order

The 23rd gate is Splitting Apart, and it’s the amorality, the awareness and understanding which leads to the acceptance of diversity. When we look at the 43, in order for achievement to be maintained, a new order must be fairly established. So, a new order must be established that establishes what? That establishes the inherent right of diversity. This is the essence of the whole background frequency; this is a stage of the 43/23. This is a stage where uniqueness is intended to be enshrined. 

What you’re going to see is all the attempts of trying to establish a new order. This is the Channel of Structuring, so one who has this as a Nodal configuration ends up in a world in which structuring is the underlying theme, an underlying theme that at its mundane level is about nothing more than anything other than creating a higher level of efficiency in whatever activity humans are involved in. This is very much stepping into a constant struggle, a struggle that is there between conformity and diversity. The whole pull of this is to move away from conformity and to establish a new order that fairly accepts within the structure all of diversity. 

Now of course, this is not necessarily a stage that is welcomed in many places in civilization at any given time. The reality of the not-self and the openness of human beings to live by their not-self rather than their true self leads to societies and civilizations that are cemented by homogenization where everyone is forced to be very much the same in terms of the general themes of the way in which we live. That correctness is something that tends to be established by generalized moralistic forces, whether they are religious forces, religious institutions or governmental institutions. And here in this environment is an environment in which there is an ongoing attempt to reform the societies, reform the civilizations in order to enshrine the potential and the beauty of what diversity is.

No Difference Which Gate Is in the South Node

Whether or not you begin with a South Node 23 going to the 43 or the 43 going to the 23, it truly is not going to make significant difference in terms of what the environment is going to be like in one’s life. And recognize that an environment in which uniqueness is intended to be honored within the structure, how important it is to see that isn’t the Profile and it has nothing to do with the Profile. In fact, the being itself may not feel comfortable in such an environment, and yet that is the very environment for them to fulfill what is their purpose. If your purpose happens to be to be different in your own way, that you see that homogenization is the correct thing for you, and obviously, there are those that are going to be imprinted in such a way, that this is simply an environment that will act at that counterpoint for that potential of purpose.

It’s so important not to confuse the Nodal polarities with the Profile, and not to see them in that context. Remember, everything about operating correctly begins with your Strategy and your inner Authority.


The 2nd and 1st Nodes
The 2nd Gate: Action

Here we’ve come to the very heart of the preciseness of the mirror of opposition. We are dealing with the 1st hexagram, The Creative, which is the yangest of hexagrams with six yang lines, and opposite it, the 2nd gate, The Receptive, yinest of hexagrams with six yin lines. And here we have the absolute mirror. We have this perfect mirror to each other. They’re at the very core of the design, the core of the Bodygraph. That is, when you’re looking at the 1 and the 2, you’re in the G center. These are two aspects in the right angle configuration that are aspects of the Cross of the Sphinx, and this is all about direction in life. 

When you’re dealing with the 2nd gate and you’re dealing with it within its Nodal configuration, this is receptivity as the primal base through which any response is determined. It is the root of action. One of the things to see about the environment is what the 2nd gate is going to bring. The 2nd gate is going to bring an environment of openness, receptivity, and receptivity to those things that lead to action. In other words, this is an environment in which the openness, whether that openness is intellectual or otherwise—openness to the times, openness to the environment—it leads to action, because action is really the theme. When you see somebody with a 2nd gate Nodal configuration, you know right away that in their environment there is all this action that is required. In other words, it’s a stage that’s set and a stage that’s full of a great deal of activity.

The 1st Gate: Inspiration

When you go to the other side, when you go to the yangest of hexagrams, when you go to the 1st gate, The Creative, this is creation as a primal force. It’s the energy potential to manifest inspiration without limitation. So, when you’re dealing with the 1st gate Nodally, what you’re dealing with is an environment that can be and will be inspiring, an environment that is inspired. This is not something that stops in that sense; it is a deeply rich environment, an inspiring environment. 

What we’re looking at in this particular configuration is action and inspiration as the keynotes of this Nodal configuration. And whether you’re moving from the inspiration to the action or the action to the inspiration, it is so important to understand if you are operating correctly, that is, if you’re operating correctly through your Strategy and Authority, then you’re going to be able to take advantage of these environments. You’re going to be able to take advantage of these environments in order to be able to fulfill your purpose.

It is one of the keys in Human Design to recognize that the fulfillment of purpose operates through Profile and that Profile does not dominate in the life until one has dealt with one’s characteristics. In other words, until one is operating correctly through Strategy and Authority, there is no way in which the Profile can begin to dominate as a thematic for the life. And the moment one does operate correctly, then one can fully take advantage of one’s Nodal environment.

It doesn’t mean necessarily that one is forced to take action, nor does it mean necessarily that one is constantly being inspired. What it does mean is that to live one’s life correctly and to fulfill one’s purpose in life, that you can only do so in those environments. It’s those environments that nurture whatever the potential is of your purpose in this life. So, an environment of inspiration doesn’t necessarily lead to a being who is continually inspired. But that very environment of inspiration is the bedrock upon which their purpose, whatever their purpose happens to be, can be fulfilled.

It also doesn’t mean that they lack that inspiration or that they lack that receptivity that leads to action. But it is not treated in the same way that you would treat it as an activation by one of the planets or the Sun and the Earth. In other words, you really have to see that this is an expression of the environment. And yes, the environments we operate in obviously are going to have impact on us. To be in an inspiring environment is ultimately also something that’s going to lead, even just through conditioning, to inspiration. 

But the key as always is to see that the Nodal stage is exactly the right place for you to fulfill your destiny in this life.

The 24th and 44th Nodes
The 24th Gate: Transformation and Renewal

This is actually a fascinating stage within the Nodal context.  When you’re dealing with the 24th gate, the Return, you’re dealing with a gate in the Ajna Center.  It’s a conceptualizing gate and it is going to have a lot to do with an environment of intellectuality.  It is the natural and spontaneous process of transformation and renewal.  Again, this is not as one would see it through a Profile, in the sense that this is something for the being itself, that they’re going to go through spontaneous transformation and renewal.  It means that the environment is full of spontaneous transformation and renewal.  And it is within the context of this environment of this transformation and renewal that the very purpose of one’s life can be fulfilled.

The thing to understand about the Nodes is that they do provide a signpost.  When you look all around you with the 24 Nodes and you see these spontaneous moments of transformation and renewal, you know you’re in the right environment.  And of course, this is essential to grasp.  It’s not about saying, “Ooh, this frightens me. I don’t know when it’s going to happen.”  This is very individual.  This is something that’s there and it’s not, and then suddenly it’s there.  If you’re operating out of the not-self and you’re not operating out of your own Authority, this can all appear to be very disturbing.  It can lead to a deep sense of melancholy if there is no transformation and renewal, if one does not experience transformation and renewal. 

So the key to understanding the Nodal environment is recognizing that this is where you belong.  It’s where you should be.  It’s what’s supposed to be there all around you in your life.  And if you see it all around you in your life and you’re operating correctly as yourself, then you’re on the right stage to reach the fulfillment of your purpose.

The 44th Gate: Surrender

On the other side we have the 44th gate, and the 44th gate is a gate of alertness.  It’s in the Splenic System.  Again, whenever we’re dealing with a Node that’s in the Spleen, we’re dealing with a Node that brings an environment of fear.  This is a gate of alertness.  So there is this fear and tension in the alertness that’s going to exist in the environment.  But it’s:  The success of any interaction is based on the absence of any preconditions.  

Now think about that because it’s very, very significant.  If you know circuitry in Human Design and you look at the tribe, you will see that the parallel to the 26/44 is the 40/37.  The 40th gate is out of the ego, like the 26th gate, going down to the emotional system rather than to the Spleen, to the 37.  The 40/37, the Channel of Community is all about the bargain.  But look on this side, to the 44 and you can see that the bargain isn’t what it’s all about.  It’s not about a deal.  It isn’t.  It is about the fulfillment of ambition.  And there  are to be no preconditions.  

So here is an environment in which deals will not work.  If you’re in this environment and you’re carrying the 44th gate and you’re busily involving yourself in arrangements in which you have to make a bargain in order to hope to get where you want to get to, you’re in absolutely the wrong place, because the right environment for you is an environment without preconditions.  You can begin to see how conditioning can move you away from the natural environment you’re intended to be in.  

One of the things to recognize about the nature of conditioning is how easy it is for conditioning.  Remember that the Nodes themselves are only positions.  They are not objects.  How easy it is for the Nodes to be confused, how easy it is for imprinting to influence the not-self and move it away from being able to be in the right environment and not see that the lack of preconditions is correct, instead of being conditioned to think that you have to have preconditions in order for anything to be a success.  

So here we have a very interesting stage, this polarity between the 24 and the 44.  At the deepest area of this is the ability to be able to see the positive of this environment.  Transformation, renewal and success, they’re all there, but you have to be able to accept, surrender to, which is one of the inherent themes of the 44 in its movement towards the 26, you have to surrender to your environment.  And you cannot do that with the mind.  You can only do that mechanically through correctness, through honoring your Strategy, following your inner Authority.

The 3rd and 50th Nodes
The 50th Gate: Traditional Values

Here you really have a very extraordinary kind of background, because you have a transition between what is ultimately deeply conservative, that’s the 50th gate, and what is fundamentally individual, freaky and mutative, and that’s the 3rd gate.  So, we have very different aspects of the way in which this stage is going to operate.  It’s particularly significant in the difference between whether one or the other gates is the South Node or the North Node.

Let’s take a look at the 50th gate, The Cauldron.  This is the gate of preservation.  It is deeply tribal.  It is the root of our intelligence system and the value of historical continuity whose traditional values serves and enriches the present and the future.  So, for example, when you are born with a South Node 50, then the stage upon which your life opens up on is a stage, in the environment, that is full of beings with traditional values and a community rooted in traditional values.  This kind of community, depending on where the community is and what the traditional values happen to be, is very much being caught into tribal continuity.  In other words, being caught up in a world in which the value systems refuse to accept the challenge of the outside, the challenge of whatever—modernity, secularism, whatever it happens to be, depending on the quality of those traditional values.

Remember, this is not as if this is the Personality and thus the Profile and what the life is going to be about.  This is about the environment upon which the potential of the purpose of the life can be fulfilled.  So it’s essential for this being that comes into the world with this configuration to go through this phase of their life, whether it’s the first or second half of their life, where they’re dealing with the power of it in the environment, the traditional tribal values.

The 3rd Gate: Confusion

Now obviously when we go to the other side, when we go to the polarity to the 3rd gate, we get to Difficulty at the Beginning.  We get to a Sacral gate that is part of the format energy of the individual process.  It’s a pulse.  There is both a deep uncertainty and a potential melancholy that is rooted in the 3rd gate, and this is the fundamental challenge of initiation to transcend confusion and establish order.  

This will lead to two very different kinds of life processes, whether you are going from the 3 to the 50 or the 50 to the 3.  If you start your process with the 50 South Node, you start with traditional values as your background, only to discover that the traditional values for whatever reason collapse, and in that collapse is the rising up of confusion, and out of that confusion, the need to establish a new order. In other words, there is the breakdown of whatever the continuity happens to be in the environment, and then the resulting confusion and the attempt to establish a new order.

If you’re coming the other way—that is, if you have a South Node 3rd gate, moving towards the 50th gate as your North Node, then you end up starting your process with confusion all around.  In other words, confusion in the environment, a lack of clarity, a lack of certainty, a great deal of discomfort in the environment, because in a world of confusion it is very difficult to operate in a successful way.  There you would have in the early part of the life this attempt to try to establish some order out of the confusion.  So that’s the environment.  Everybody’s trying to find a way, and this would lead into the 50, and this would be a return to traditional values.  In other words, that order, the ordering of the confusion would end up being a return, almost a retrograde phenomena of returning to traditional values as the thing that is going to secure one’s future. 

You can see that in the rise of fundamentalism in middle-aged beings on this planet.  If you’re carrying this kind of configuration, it is a natural thing to reject the confusion as an example of modern society to return to the secure traditional values that were established tribally.  

So this is a very interesting environment to work with.  Again, remember that the perfection of one’s process, the fulfillment of one’s purpose through one’s Profile, that given this Nodal environment, this is the environment in which that purpose can be fulfilled—not one to be rejected, not one to be denied, but one to be surrendered to correctly as oneself.

The 27th and 28th Nodes
The 28th Gate: Transitoriness of Power and Influence 

Sic transit gloria mundi — the 28th gate, the Preponderance of the Great, the transitoriness of power and influence.  This is very important to understand in the context of the 28th gate, which is a gate of the fear of death, the fear of lack of value or purpose in life.  One of the things to be clear about is that purpose is not about career.  This is not to be confused with the 32.  That purpose is something else.  That purpose is a deeper fulfillment within life itself regardless of one’s circumstances.  

The Nodal 28, the transitoriness of power and influence, here we’re going to have a background environment in which this is the obvious.  In other words, what we’re going to see on the stage of this life is power and influence as something that’s transitory — people who gain power and lose it, people who have influence and lose it—this is going to be the background stage.

Remember this is one of the keys in understanding Nodes.  The Node is representing the environment that one is designed to be a part of, but it doesn’t mean that one is the environment.  And the ability to fulfill one’s purpose, that purpose is fulfilled exclusively through that environment.  In other words, it doesn’t necessarily mean that the being is going to go through the transitoriness of power and influence, but power and influence are going to be the background of its life.  That it’s going to see the transitoriness of this because it is going to be all around it.  And whether or not it is caught up in one side or the other in its process is moot, because it is the environment that’s necessary simply to fulfill its purpose.

The 27th Gate: Caring

The 27th gate is the enhancement of the quality and the substance of all activities through caring.  This is the gate of Nourishment.  This is a genetic role gate.  It’s a role gate for caring.  It is part of the Channel of Preservation and it’s the gate of caring.  And here in dealing with the 27 as a Nodal aspect, this is an environment in which caring is there.  In other words, the quality and substance of life is enriched through caring, and this is what is obviously in the environment, the stage upon which this person is leading their life.

It does not mean necessarily that they’re going to be caring beings simply because their Node happens to be in the 27th gate.  What it will mean is that if they’re operating correctly they will be aligned to this environment and they will be aligned to the value of caring, the value of nurturing within the context of the environment.  But it is the environment that is going to set the foundation for their process or for their purpose.  

When you’re looking at the Nodal movement you begin to see—remember because we’re dealing with oppositions in the wheel, we are dealing with mirrors—there is a natural movement; there is a natural relationship moving from one side to the other.  If you begin your life as a South Node 27, then you begin a life in which the environment around you is a nurturing environment.  It is a caring environment.  And that caring environment is then going to lead you into the transitoriness of power and influence.  

In other words, the fact that one is well-nurtured, the fact that one is deeply looked after as an example, that there is a nurturing environment around does not necessarily mean that in and of itself guarantees the retention of either power or influence.  Power or influence is transitoriness.  And of course, one could begin to speculate about the psychological consequences of seeing that despite the fact that you may nurture something, that that thing in and of itself simply because it’s well-nurtured, well-loved, doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s going to come out the way you want it to, or it’s going to turn out correctly.

The other side is to come into a world on the 28 side Nodally speaking, and come into a world where transitoriness is the obvious, where there is this constant discontinuity in the process, only to move into the second half of the life where regardless of the fact that there happens to be transitoriness in power and influence, that nurturing and caring bring quality to the life process.

The 42nd and 32nd Nodes
The 42nd Gate: The Demand for Growth

This is one of the most difficult Nodal polarities, difficult in the sense that it is a polarity that lays a foundation for the potential fulfillment of purpose on a stage where there is always threat and risk, and there is always uncertainty.  The 42nd gate is the gate of Increase.  It is the gate of growth, and it is part of the abstract.  In other words, this is a deep, deep process, a deep Sacral process, and it’s all about: The expansion of resources which maximizes the development of full potential.  

So, the 42nd gate is a demand for growth, and of course this demand for growth leads to dilemmas when one isn’t operating correctly.  That is, to enter into the right experience, the experience that’s going to be fulfilling, the experience that’s going to bring development into your life, that in order to do so you have to know how to make the right decision as yourself.  So, without that right decision, this whole drive for growth can end up being very disturbing.  In other words, you can end up using massive amounts of energy to enter into a process where you think that growth is going to be the result of that, only to discover that it’s a retrogressive process and in fact all it leads to is dilemmas and crisis.  

The 32nd Gate: Change

On the other side of that you have the 32nd gate, which is the gate of Duration: The only thing that endures is change.  So you can see that here you have a Nodal environment in which change and growth are the theme.  Now obviously if you have a Nodal environment that is rooted in the 32nd gate, the environment around you is going to be full of uncertainty.  In other words, change is always going to be there. More than that, the 32nd gate, which is a gate of continuity, is always disturbed when continuity is not something that is realizable.  In other words, without being able to see the continuity in the process, the first result of that is that—the 32nd gate is out of the Splenic Center and the Splenic Center carries all of our primal fears—the 32nd gate deals with the fear of failure.  

Remember, this is not about describing the 32nd gate as a Profile gate.  This is the 32nd gate as a Nodal gate.  And when you see the 32nd gate as a Nodal gate, what it’s really saying to you is that the people that are going to be there in your life are the ones who are going to be constantly dealing with these fears of failure.  That’s the environment.  The environment is people that are afraid of failure driven to thinking that growth is the answer.  This is the whole process.

It doesn’t matter if you’re going from the 42 to the 32 or the 32 to the 42; you’re dealing with a fundamentally unstable environment.  Growth in and of itself doesn’t mean that  it is stable.  The growth in itself is littered with problems, mistakes, all of the possibilities that come with growth because you’re entering into something that is new.  So this Nodal environment, this fear of failure, the fear of failure if one cannot grow properly, this is the stage.  This is what the main players in the background of this being’s life—these are going to be the dynamic themes that are going to be at work.  And you see when you’re looking at the Nodes, how important it is to understand that you’re seeing the right environment for you.  

One of the most interesting things if you look into the analysis of this,look at various human beings in their design, that one of the most uncomfortable areas for people in their design are the Nodes, because the environment that the Nodes are bringing, the not-self is always going to react negatively to that environment.  “Why is everybody concerned with failure?”  Yet in fact, this is a being whose fulfillment of their purpose is only possible in this environment. 

Obviously, if you’re operating correctly and you’re fulfilling the potential of your purpose through your Profile, this will not be a life in which you will be at a loss, where you will be caught in these fears of failure and all the other things that go with this configuration.  It means that you will be in a world where that is a theme, and yet at the same time, you have the potential to operate perfectly within that framework.  As a matter of fact, it is that framework that offers you the potential of your own perfection.

The 51st and 57th Nodes
The 51st Gate: Disorder and Shock
The 51st gate is The Arousing.  It’s the gate of shock.  And it is: The ability to respond to disorder and shock through recognition and adaptation.  When we’re talking about this—this is the Nodal environment—it’s clear that we’re going to have a stage upon which disorder and shock are going to be the meat of that environment, and you’re going to deal with beings who are representatives of that disorder.  You’re going to see dysfunction in the society and there’s going to be shock that is around.  

Again, it’s not so much that the shock is personal, but the shock is in the environment, one sees the results of that.  The other thing is the 51st gate is about bravery or foolishness or courage.  All of these are aspects of the environment that is going to be there when you have a 51st Node.  In other words, that environment is trying to deal with the disorder and the shock.  

The 57th Gate: Fear
On the other side, you have the 57th gate, The Gentle, and this is an extraordinary gate.  It is the deepest theme of intuition that we have coming out of the spleen.  The 57th gate operates uniquely in the sense that it is operating through three other gates—its connection to the 34, the 10 or the 20 in what is both integration and the individual process.  This is: The extraordinary power of clarity.  

But again, to really grasp the depth of the 57 as a Nodal environment is to understand that this is a Nodal environment where the real theme is the fear of tomorrow.  And what you’re looking at when you’re dealing with a 51/57 Nodal environment is that you’re dealing with an environment that is not stable.  There is a great deal of fear.  There is a great deal of fear for survival.  There is a great deal of fear about what’s going to happen tomorrow.  Again, that means that one can end up being in an environment where those fears are all around.  

On the other side, you have the shock and the disorder that is also going to be there in the background.  When you’re looking at this from an isolated perspective, as I do here, one would think that this could be a very, very disturbing framework upon which to find one’s purpose.  And yet recognize clearly, that the Nodes that you have through the genetic continuity of your being are precisely the environment that’s necessary.  

When you’re looking at this from the outside one tends, in the duality, to pass judgment.  We’re always caught in measurement; we’re always caught in this and that.  So, we look at a configuration like this in which there is the fear for survival and the fear for tomorrow, and the shock and disorder, and we think, “Oh isn’t that terrible to come in on that configuration!”  But this is truly a lack of awareness.  In other words, there is no way that you can pass that kind of judgment on it.  In fact, to really understand any polarity is to recognize that every polarity can be hell and every polarity can be heaven.  And it is not about the polarity.  It is truly about the being.

All Environments Are Correct for the True Self
The most fascinating thing about purpose—that is, the nature of one’s Profile and one’s Cross—is that it can only be fulfilled within the context of the environment of the life.  They’re made for each other.  And of course, if you’re operating as the not-self, then you have no access to your role.  You’re caught in the characteristics of your Bodygraph.  And as long as you’re caught in the characteristics, this kind of Nodal environment can be deeply disturbing because it becomes part of the conditioning field.  That one ends up being conditioned to be afraid of tomorrow, to be fearful, to be caught in a life of disorder, to be caught in a life that is punctuated by shock.  
But the moment that one goes beyond the characteristics and one is able to operate correctly as oneself and begins to live out the true nature of one’s role, then you discover that this is the ideal environment because it is the environment that is there to nurture that perfection of you as a unique and differentiated being.  It’s all about you acting correctly as yourself, based on your Strategy and based on your Authority.  Only then can you take advantage of such a challenging polarity.

The 21st and 48th Nodes
The 21st Gate: Control
When we’re dealing with the 21st gate, we’re dealing with a very, very powerful ego gate.  As a powerful ego gate, it is a gate of control and in many ways is the focus for whether or not the tribe is going to succeed or not.  It is this very level of control of the 21 that ultimately can find the expression for the tribe and its potential to manifest in the Throat.  And when we’re dealing with the 21, we’re dealing with the theme of justified and necessary use of power in overcoming deliberate and persistent interference.  

Whenever you see this as a Nodal element, whether it’s going to be the South Node or the North Node, you know that you’re going to have an environment where there is deliberate and persistent interference in the environment.  In other words, that this is going to be a background, the stage upon which this life operates, regardless of whether it’s going to be the first half or the second half of that life, in which there are all kinds of forces that make it exceedingly difficult to stay in control.  Control is this theme and there is this constant interference.  There is the persistent and deliberate interference that is also there in the background.

Now remember this is not the thematic of the Profile, but this is the environment in which the Profile has to find itself.  And whether it finds itself through the use of this or that force or power or whatever the case may be, whatever is inherent within the Profile itself, the reality is the only way in which that Profile is going to lead to fulfillment as purpose is by dealing with the background of deliberate and persistent interference.  

One of the things about acceptance is the recognition that we don’t see properly.  And everything about this is how one sees.  In other words, if one is not operating correctly it can become overwhelming to have an environment where there is always interference, where there are always attempts to get in one’s way, and that one can turn on that and end up being very, very depressed that the world is against one, and ultimately that one falls by the wayside rather than being able to operate correctly and fulfill one’s purpose through that environment.  And in fact, if one is operating correctly that environment of potential interference and all of that that’s there doesn’t necessarily mean it’s a negative.  It’s the very thing necessary for the fulfillment of the process.

The 48th Gate: The Common Good
On the other side we have the 48th gate, The Well.  The Well is a gate of depth.  It’s a necessary and qualitative foundation that is a prerequisite to establish the common good.  Everything having to do about the logical process is about ensuring that there is a secure and viable future for all of us.  And in setting this foundation, in other words coming with solutions, solutions that can be of benefit to humanity, is that this is the environment.  

Now, what it means, quite literally, is that the common good is not established.  So for example, if one has the 48th gate in the South Node phase, it is clear that the common good is not being serviced, and it is dealing with the dilemma of the common good not being serviced that becomes the impetus for that Profile of that being in operating correctly to find its purpose in that very environment.

The other thing is that the 48th gate can be one of the most frustrated of all gates.  And what I mean by that is where the 18th gate, its direct relationship in its logical stream, sees what needs to be corrected, it’s the responsibility of the 48th gate to find a solution.  Yet in finding the solution there is no easy ability to be able to act on that solution since the 48th gate is in the Spleen.  It’s not a motor; it’s not necessarily connected to either the Sacral or the Throat.  So, the environment of the common good is also going to be filled with lots of people who have opinions about how things can be better, how the common good and the foundation for the common good can be established.

You can see here in this combination, the background environment is an unstable one.  In other words, this is a background environment where to be able to operate in the world and to operate well that one sees immediately with this Nodal construct that there are many things that need to be done.  So, this is a stage in which there are all kinds of potential inspiration to transcend whatever the dilemmas are.  But again, that can only be achieved through the fulfillment of the purpose.  That is, in operating correctly, being able to make decisions through one’s true inner authority and thus be able to fulfill the potential of one’s role on this stage.

The 17th and 18th Nodes
The 17th and 18th Gates: See a World that Needs to be Fixed
The 17 and the 18 are perhaps the most critical of all the gates in Design. That is, these are logical gates.  The logical gate as the stream itself, and as the circuit itself, is deeply concerned with the future.  Everything about logic is about laying down a pattern foundation that will make the future more secure.  In the 18th gate, Work on What has been Spoiled, we have a logical correction, the logical challenge, the challenge to the pattern to make sure that the pattern operates correctly for the benefit of the collective.  In the 17th gate, we have the intellectual mirror of this.  That is, we have the gate of opinions, Following, and all of this about organizing through concepts the collective, and organizing the collective for the betterment of humanity as it moves into the future.  

So when we’re dealing with the 17 and the 18, one of the things to recognize about this as a Nodal polarity is this is the world that needs to be fixed.  And it’s something very important to understand if these are your Nodes.  In other words, the stage upon which your life is set is the stage upon which you get to see the realities of the society that you’re living in.  The 17 says:  The ancient law that those who wish to rule must know how to serve.  And of course, there is this learning process that is deeply a part of this.  But it’s more than that.  That is, that ruling and serving are the themes and are the themes of the way in which society functions successfully or not.  In other words, there are those who are ruling in the background and are doing disservice to humanity, there are those who are serving who are benefiting humanity, and there is this basic conflict about what will be the correct way.

The 18th Gate: Vigilance
When you’re dealing with the 18, this is vigilance and determination to uphold and defend basic and fundamental human rights.  If you’re born with the South Node 18, one of the things that you’re going to see in the first part of your life, the background of that part of your life is the denial of fundamental and basic human rights.  And whether that denial of rights happens to be in your own backyard or in some place on the other side of the globe, the reality is that it’s going to be very much a part of the stage upon which you have the potential to fulfill your purpose.  

Both the 17 and the 18 are there to serve humanity, and so, this need of humanity is what is going to be the most obvious in the stage that is set. In other words, having these as Nodes is going to place you in a world in which you see constantly the need for correction, the need to defend the basic and fundamental human rights of humanity, the need to organize humanity in a way in which it’s going to be more successful for them, and that their future is going to be better protected.  In other words, there is a fundamental background of inequality and problems that are going to be very much a part of this person’s life, and that they are going to be able to fulfill their specific purpose through this.

Again, remember that when we’re dealing with the Nodal polarity, we’re not talking about a Cross in that sense.  We’re not talking about the imprinting of the Sun/Earth, which is 70% of our imprinting.  We’re talking about an environment in which that imprinting is going to work with.  So, when you’re looking at the 17 and the 18 as a Nodal polarity, if you saw this in its right angle variation, you would see this is an arm of The Cross of Service.  In other words, at the personality level, at the design level, at the Profile level, this is all about being of benefit to humanity.  But when it’s a Nodal environment, it does not mean that your purpose is to be of service.  

What it does mean is that the very environment that you’re going to have to develop in is an environment where there are vast problems in the way in which humanity operates; that there are things all around you that point to the lack of human rights, and that point to fundamental dilemmas that are there in humanity that need to be corrected.  It does not mean necessarily that your purpose is fulfilled through correcting them, that your purpose is fulfilled through being in that environment, because it is that environment that nurtures whatever your purpose happens to be.

The 13th and 7th Gate Nodal Polarity
The 13th and 7th Gate Nodal Polarity

Identity Gates
The 13th gate is the Fellowship of Man and the 7th gate is the gate of the Army. Both of these gates are role gates. And they are role gates in the G Center. In their right angle configuration, they form an arm of the Cross of the Sphinx. Each gate, the 13 and the 7, are gates of the Sphinx, this polarity on either end is the very beginning of a quarter in the wheel. The 13th gate is the first hexagram of the Quarter of Initiation, and the 7th gate is the first gate in the Quarter of Duality. 

So we have this combination of these gates that are in the Self so that identity is the true stage. In other words, in terms of the Nodal configuration, whether you’re going from the 7 to the 13 or the 13 to 7, the background is about identity. In other words, the environment is an environment that is full of strong identities and the encouragement of the establishment of identity. As an environment, it means that the fulfillment of purpose is going to be deeply connected to this concept of self and the opening of self.

South Node 13 to the North Node 7
Obviously, there are different ways in which the scenario is going to move. If you’re moving from the South Node 13 to the North Node 7, then you’re moving from the realm of mind and you’re going to move through a whole process of learning and listening and developing and you’re going to be in an environment where ideas and values are all part of the background— the ideas and values that are established by strong identities and that identity itself becomes the formula.

So, the movement is going to be through the development of ideas and values and through that movement finding the right other, in that sense, because everything about duality is about the genetic imperative within humanity, the imperative to bond with the other, the imperative that through that bond that the potential of continuity and continuation in the process is created.

So, when you’re looking at the 13 and the 7 and you’re looking at them as a backdrop upon which the life is going to operate, how important it is to see that these are beings that need to be in environments that are going to nurture them mentally. Not only environments that are going to nurture them mentally, but environments in which they have the possibility of enriching relationships with the other.

South Node 7 to the North Node 13
The other thing is that the whole process of the 7 to the 13 is that if you’re moving from the 7 to the 13, the 7 is a demand that there is leadership. So the framework of the life will begin with these forces that guide, these forces of leadership that are going to be there. And these forces that guide one into various bonds. Out of these bonds comes the stimulation of the ideas and the values.

Both the 7 and the 13 are role gates. It is important to understand that the Nodal environment isn’t simply a matter of the gates, but is very much a matter of the lines themselves. When you’re dealing with the Nodes as lower trigram, how important it is to understand that this is a very much self-absorbed process. So, for example, this combination of the listening self and the development of this listening self, if it’s a 1st line theme, then clearly this listening process is one that is of deep investigation. If it is a 2nd line theme one has to be called out to that and the environment will be an environment that does that. It will be an environment which in order to get the other that is important for you, in order to hear what you need to hear about the development of yourself, you’re going to have to knock on those doors and you’re going to have to call it out.

The 3rd line self that listens is one that it happens to it. Things bump into it. And obviously when you move to the transpersonal lines, to the 4, to the 5, to the 6, again each line helps identify the kind of environment that is going to be embodied by the hexagram thematic.




The 33rd and the 19th Nodes
The 33rd Gate: Weakness

We begin with the 33rd gate, the gate of Retreat. It is the gate of privacy and it’s in the Throat Center. One of the things about this gate is that it is a gate of remembrance, it’s a gate of revelation, and it is a gate of potential articulation. After all, we’re dealing with a gate that is in the Throat. It is the capacity, in that sense, to remember or not.

So, when we’re dealing with the 33 as a Nodal environment, one of the things that is very much a part of that environment is a sensitivity to the stories of people and the sensitivity to the experiential process that human beings have gone through. There is an ear, in that sense, for those stories. Everything about the environment of the 33 is about weakness. It’s about the transformation of weakness and its potential transformation into strength. That transformation into strength through both the ability to be able to go into retreat; but, the essence of that is the ability to think things over, to process them, to make sense out of them, to clarify experience. Out of that clarifying, out of that role of witnessing, to be able to articulate what one has discovered, what has been revealed.

So, here we’re dealing with an environment in which there is a great deal of weakness. Amongst the weakness are those that have stories of the movement from weakness to strength. This is a perception. If you carry the 33rd Node, this is something that you’re always aware of. It’s something that you’re always sensitive to in the environment around you, the sensitivity to the general weakness that is there in the environment. At the same time, what you see in classic literature, the heroism, the heroic journeys, the quests, all of these things are also part of that environment. It’s part of that revelation, the witness story, how experience can transform the weak, in that sense, into strength.

It’s important, again, to realize that this is not a Profile. In other words, this is simply a perception of the environment, or what one is sensitive to in the way in which one perceives the environment. But it is precisely in such an environment that one’s purpose, and the potential of one’s purpose can be fulfilled.

The 19th Gate: Neediness

On the other side, we have the 19th gate. The 19th gate is the gate Approach and this is a gate that is under a tremendous amount of pressure at this time as we come to the closing years of this particular cycle. The 19th gate is the gate of wanting. It is a gate that carries with it the pressure out of the Root System, a pressure of neediness. Of course, you can see that on one side there is this environment where one perceives weakness and at the same time one also gets to hear of transcendence. That is, the stories of transcendence. On the other side you have this deep neediness for resources, for protection, for the security of relationships, for the security of religion. And there is a neediness that is there within the environment itself.

That neediness is displayed through approach. In other words, this is an environment where one is sensitive to the fact that there are all these beings that want, that lack so much, and that there is this deep need that resides within them. Obviously, when we’re dealing with the need for the thematics that run out of the 19th gate, we’re going to see that they’re also going to be present. That is, if you have the 19th gate as a Nodal configuration, you are going to be very sensitive to those who take advantage of the needy. And whether they’re taking advantage under the guises of a white hat or wearing a black hat doesn’t really make a difference. The fact is that it’s going to be very clear that the weak and the needy are often taken advantage of in the environment, that all things are interrelated as apparent and manifested through the action of approach. It is this interrelatedness that forms the deepest essence of this background.

The 19 and the 33 are very significant. They are gates of the right angle configuration of the Cross of the Four Ways. These two ways are ways that are deeply seen by somebody who carries this Nodal configuration. It is very clear that there is this great weakness and neediness in the world. It is from that platform of that recognition that the potential of one’s purpose is fulfilled through correctness, through following one’s strategy and one’s inner authority.

The 31st and 41st Nodes
The 31st Gate: Friction

When we begin with the 31st gate, we have the expression in the Throat of the logical system and its potential for leadership. This is the gate of leading and it’s part of the Channel of the Alpha. Everything about the nature of the 31st gate is that it’s all about friction. The law of friction, whether active or passive, that engenders transference and thus influence. It’s something truly to understand that to come into this life and have the 31st gate as a Node is to understand that there is going to be friction that is out there in the environment. You’re going to be sensitive to friction in the environment, whether that friction is going to be active or passive.

The thing to understand about the nature of logical leadership, and it’s one of the things that so often is seen as the negative, for example in our political culture, the fact that in democratic systems, we have this endless bickering and arguing between one side or the other side of the spectrum with each other. One of things to see so clearly about the way in which collective leadership operates is that collective leadership grows out of friction. It grows out of friction because without the friction, without the interchange, without the logical expression of the patterns there is no way to influence the others. This is an environment that can be very uncomfortable if one does not accept that this is the way. In other words, that friction is the way. The interchange is the way to find growth ultimately, to be able to develop ultimately. 

The 41st Gate: Resources

On the other side you have the 41st gate. This is the gate of Decrease. The 41st gate is deeply significant because this is the Initiating Codon. In other words, this is the gate in the Root Center that is at the root of what is the human experiential way. When we’re dealing with the 41st gate as an environmental gate, as a Nodal gate, how important it is to see that at its very basis this is an environment in which resources are the theme.

Everything about the 41st gate is that it is a gate of desire. So it’s very important to understand that there is this background theme, this pressure of desire that is in the environment. And with that pressure of desire comes the reality. The reality is that it’s the limitation of resources which maximizes development of potential. Think about that. This is the 41st gate. It is the very limitation of resources which maximizes the development of potential. The mother of necessity—out of necessity comes all of these extraordinary possibilities and inventions and whatever. But it’s also important to see the corollary of that. In other words, that the lack of limitation of resources always minimizes the development of potential. 

So here you have an environment in which there are those who don’t have the resources who are driven to do the best that they can. And out of that comes the possibilities of progress, which is the ultimate theme of the experiential way. And on the other side, in the environment, there are going to be those who have too many resources and having too many resources is a limitation. In other words, that very limitation is something that will lead to conservatism, trying to conserve whatever that relative abundance is as opposed to the potential that comes out of having the limitation and being able to develop.

So, one of the things to keep in mind about this 31/41 polarity that this is very, very close to the most dynamic and central mundane themes of life on the planet. And those who carry the 41/31 are sensitive to, and see around them, the basic themes and the basic wants of the planet.

Commentators often make the comment that here are all these children starving in this country or another country with some plague, famine, whatever the case may be, and their accusation of apathy or indifference in the majority of those in wealthy countries, who don’t do anything about it. The fact is that they don’t see it. It’s not like it’s their fault. There are only certain beings that see certain things. And you can see with the 32 various polarities that there are these basic primary 32 different ways in which we look at the world around us in which we are personally attuned to find a way to develop our purpose. 

The 31/41 is a Nodal environment. If this is something that you are carrying, please understand that your sensitivity to this kind of world that you see is the foundation of your fulfillment of your purpose; obviously, as long as you’re operating correctly as yourself.

The 56th and 60th Nodes
The 56th Gate: Movement

When we begin with the 56th gate, we have the gate of stimulation and this is The Wanderer. Everything about the 56th gate is its metamorphic capacity to transform our inner vision into ideas, ideas that can be expressed verbally. One of the things to realize about the nature of the 56th gate as a Throat gate, it’s a gate that expresses both pleasure and pain as a way of stimulating others. And it’s one of the things to see about the nature of the environment that this is going to represent as a Node.

Stability through movement. So, here’s an environment where there is constant movement. Remember that this is the perception, to look out in the world and see that everything is moving, that everything is busy. It is the perpetuation of continuity through the linking of short-term activities. Here we have an environment where there is a tremendous amount of activity and there is a tremendous amount of movement. But one of the things to keep in mind is that this activity and this movement carry a patina that colors it either towards the side of pleasure or the side of pain. This is also an environment that is full of belief systems where there is a tremendous amount of effort in trying to attain the products of beliefs and belief systems. 

The 60th Gate: Limitation

On the other side, we have the 60th gate and the 60th gate is the gate of Limitation. Of course, this is an individual gate and it’s a format energy, it’s in the Root Center, so again we have a pressure system that is there. One of the things to keep in mind is that if you have the 56th gate in the South Node phase then you’re going to have a very verbal environment. You’re going to have the kind of environment where there is a great deal of sharing of ideas. There is movement in those ideas, they move from one idea to the other, believing in one thing and then believing in the next thing.

The moment that you enter into the 60 Nodal environment, you enter into limitation. In other words, you meet the wall. And in meeting that wall, you get an environment that can be populated with a lot of very depressed beings. The 60th gate, like all the gates that are part of format energies, always has the potential for depression. And the 60th gate, already being individual, brings a lot of melancholy and the potential of creativity in the environment.

But this is: The acceptance of limitation is the first step in transcendence. This is something that’s very interesting about the environment. Here you’re going from an environment that is full of activity, an environment that is full of movement then all of a sudden you hit the brick wall of limitations. Without the limitations, without that as an environment, there is no way to find transcendence.

Potential for Transcendence
Somebody who has the 56/60 as a Nodal configuration in their design built into their environment is always the potential for transcendence, and always the potential to be around those and to see those who in accepting limitation, begin this process of transcending whatever the limitation happens to be.

But again, it’s very important to understand that this is a quite a complex Nodal variation. If you’re starting with the South Node in the 60th gate, then limitation is really going to be the scene, and there is going to be a lot of both limitation and people trying to get away from the limitation and failing because limitation is just that. One cannot transcend limitation until one accepts it. So there can be quite a constrained environment.

On the other side, that movement to the 56 will immediately open everything up. But it will open it up in a way that can be just as destabilizing. In other words, this constant movement and activity, particularly in dealing with ideas and belief systems and the way in which these things can be shifting. It can be an environment where there are all kinds of confusing visions about what life is, where one can go in this life, how one can transform one’s life.

Somebody who has this as a Nodal configuration, remember this is what you see in the environment around you that gives you the very basis upon which you can fulfill your own purpose in this life.


The 62nd and 61st Nodes
The 62nd Gate: Detail

When we’re dealing with 62nd gate we’re dealing with the gate of The Preponderance of the Small, and this is the gate of detail. The 62nd gate is an extraordinary gate because it is a metamorphic gate. That is, it has the capacity to translate our inner vision of patterns and formulas and to be able to give it the necessary language and description to ultimately allow other people to understand. So the 62nd gate is very much a verbal gate of the expression of detail. 

When you’re looking at it as a Nodal configuration, one of the things that is so obvious about the 62 environment is the chatter that is out there. In other words, there is all of this detailing of information. Again, if you’re carrying the 62nd Node, then you’re somebody who is sensitive to this in your environment. In other words, when you think about the environment as being the background people in your life and the background people who are around the background people in your life, when you look at that environment that you’re moving through you’re going to be sensitive to those that are operating out of the understanding level. This is what you’re going to be attuned to, and you’re going to be attuned to the dilemmas of limitation because this is an environment that is limited. This is an environment where caution, patience and detail are necessary attributes. 

Whenever you see this, recognize that Human Design is a dualistic system. When you see a Nodal environment that says there’s caution, then you know there’s going to be lack of caution. When you see that patience is necessary, there’s also going to be the lack of patience. When you see the detail is part of it, you’re going to see that there is a lack of detail. In other words, all of the spectrum of what this 62nd environment can bring, that’s what’s going to be around. Of course, all of it is about trying to find a way to achieve excellence out of limitation. 

The 61st Gate: Principles

On the other side, you have the 61st gate. The 61st gate is in the Head Center so this is a pressure center. This is the gate of Inner Truth and it is a gate of mystery, mystery only in the sense that this is not a collective process. It is an individual process and it’s very much something in which the pressure of concepts or the pressure to conceptualize is something that suddenly emerges. The gate itself is: The awareness of universal underlying principles.

As a Nodal environment, this is an environment in which there are principles and lack of principles that are there. Of course, you as the being carrying this as a Node are deeply sensitive to the fact that there are principles out there. It’s so interesting to understand that to see your environment correctly, to have the right environment around you is the foundation for your fulfillment of purpose. This is the way the mechanism operates. 

Clearly, when you’re dealing with the 62/61, you’re dealing with an environment in which excellence and principles are the things that are being most sought out. At least that’s what you’re sensitive to. It doesn’t mean somebody standing beside you who is going to have a different Nodal configuration is going to see the world around them in the same way. 

It’s one of the things that is so fascinating about us. Most of us have a homogenized view of the world. Think about that. In other words, the world is presented to us in a certain way in which all of us take this in as a conditioning field. You get that, for example, from the major news outlets, the way information is moved around, and the lifestyle commentaries on the way people live and what is important for them and the things that are established culturally by governments and by religions.

But here you can really see that each and every one of us has a very unique perspective on the world. It’s only when we’re all operating through unique perspectives together that there is ultimately the potential to truly see the world for what it is. But the only way that can be achieved is when each and every one of us can fulfill our purpose and have a unique perspective that is the guideline for the fulfillment of that purpose.

So standing there with your 61/62 beside somebody who has a different Nodal configuration and you look out at the environment around you and say, “there is this deep need that I can feel out there, people want underlying principles, they want to find the excellence in life,” that the person standing beside you doesn’t necessarily see that at all. And yet, what they see is their differentiated truth, their differentiated perspective. It’s not about one or the other being right. And of course, what we end up with is an understanding that there is a vast spectrum of perspectives of what life is really all about.


The 53rd and 54th Nodes
The 53rd Gate: Beginnings

The 53rd gate is the gate of Development. This gate of Development is very important as an aspect of the format energy, the format energy of the abstract process. This is the gate of beginnings. Of course, there is enormous pressure to do things with the 53rd gate. The theme of the 53rd gate is: Development as a structured progression that is both steadfast and enduring. 

So, again, understand the nature of the Nodes as the impersonal environment that one moves through. And at the same time realize that the environment is in itself an illusion because the Nodes bring you the perception of that that is the way in which you see the environment. The environment is much more than the limitation of one polarity. Yet, at the same time you’re designed to see the environment in a certain way. And seeing this environment in a certain way is the basis upon which you get to fulfill your purpose as a being.

In looking at the 53 environment as a stage, we know that there is going to be a lot of activity with development and beginnings as the theme. Yet, they’re not necessarily structured. They’re not necessarily steadfast and they’re not necessarily enduring. There is an environment in which there is a potential of chaos in terms of the way in which development takes place. Yet, the way in which one sees that environment is that it leads one to understand that development as a structured progression is something that will bring rewards as long as it’s enduring and steadfast. The 53 doesn’t know this, it’s not the 42nd gate. So, here is this energy for beginnings, here this energy for freedom. Of course, not everyone is free. And this is the way in which this being with this 53rd Node is going to look at its environment.

The 54th Gate: Interaction

On the other side we have the 54th gate, The Marrying Maiden. This is the gate of ambition. So we have an environment in which interaction, social mundane interaction is the environment. In other words, that the way in which one transforms one’s life is through one’s interactions with others. And it is the transformation of one’s material life. So, the materialism is something that is going to be an important force in this environment. It also has to do with, because of the magic of the 54.4, one’s mystical and cosmic relationship. So, there in the ambition and there in the environment, in the social context of the environment, also lies the seeds of mystical and cosmic processes. 

So, to have the 53/54 as a Nodal environment, the first thing to recognize is how much pressure that environment is under. Here we’re dealing with two Root gates. So we’re dealing with two gates out of the Root Center. The Root Center is a pressure center. So this is a pressurized environment. The being that carries the 53/54 is going to see the world as a place that is under pressure, that the life process is a process that is under pressure, and that there is all of this pressure to rise up through the mundane social interaction. 

So, in the environment one is going to see others and the way in which they try to move their way up the ladder to find success in this life. And at the same time, they’re going to see in the environment this whole development process, this need to begin things, the need to do things. Most importantly, is the need to recognize that if you don’t stay with things you’re never really going to get the rewards. This is the Nodal framework of the 53/54.

But what makes it so difficult is that it’s a pressurized environment. And of course, it means that if you’re carrying this as a Nodal configuration, it’s very easy for you to be caught up in this pressurized environment; in other words, to be conditioned by the environment rather than taking advantage of the environment. And the way in which we take advantage of the way in which we’ve been designed to perceive is that through our natural inner authority based on our unique perception we can operate exactly as we are intended to operate and fulfill our purpose. That, ultimately, is what it’s all about.


The 39th and 38th Nodes
The 39th Gate: Provocation

When we’re dealing with the 39th gate, we’re dealing with a gate of Obstruction and this is the gate of the provocateur. When we’re looking at this as the Nodal environment, we know that we’re going to have a stage that is full of characters that are ready to provoke. More than that, the understanding that to have these Nodes, and to have the 39th gate as a Node is also to give you the perspective of seeing the provocation in life, seeing those that provoke. 

Of course, the value of this provocation is in provoking analysis, assessment and reevaluation. So really what that brings out is an environment where there is a need, a basic need for analysis, assessment, and reevaluation. Remember that here in dealing with the 39th gate and the 38th gate as a polarity, we are dealing with Root gates. We are dealing with a great deal of pressure and an environment that is going to be full of pressure.

If you have these Nodes, it’s very important for you to understand that you’re very sensitive to the pressure in the environment around you. Yet, in fact, that pressure is correct as a stage for you. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you, yourself, need to succumb to that pressure. Nor do you need to be a victim of the pressure. But simply to recognize that you’re sensitive to the pressure and that very sensitivity allows you to operate correctly as yourself.

The 38th Gate: The Fighter

On the other side we have the 38th gate, the gate of Opposition, the gate of the fighter. This is: The ability to preserve individual integrity through opposition to detrimental forces. Again, this is going to bring out a sensitivity to those detrimental forces that are there in the environment, a sensitivity to the environment in which there are forces that are being dealt with. In other words, where there is opposition, where there are those that are fighting against negative forces and a sensitivity within the person who has this Nodal configuration to that environment.

It’s also essential to realize that the 38th gate and the 39th gate are not only pressure gates in the Root System, but these are individual gates. They are individual gates that carry with them the individual chemistry of moodiness and melancholy as a potential. There is also the potential for creativity. So, here is a Nodal environment that is going to be full of that kind of moodiness, but also an environment that has the potential for the creative. 

So, it’s essential to really know something about your Nodal configuration. Your Nodal configuration sets the stage for you. Not only does it set the stage, but it allows you the perspective to be sensitive to the dynamics of your particular stage. Through that, in operating correctly as yourself therein lies the potential for you to discover truly what your purpose is. This is the way in which you can live out your Profile.

The 38 and the 39 as a Nodal opposition are going to bring elements of this moodiness, elements of struggle into one’s life. They’re going to be around. This threat to personal integrity, the need to defend oneself is something that is simply going to be there in the background, that to provoke others and to be provoked in order to bring out real assessment and evaluation, that’s going to be part of the environment.

But it doesn’t mean that it is you. And it doesn’t mean that you need to fall into what is the dynamic of the 38/39. That dynamic, if it was operating through your Profile would be very clear because it would represent a very deep personality trait as well as a design, an unconscious trait. But here what we’re talking about is an environment. This is THE environment, this environment of provocation, this environment of the fighter. And it is the environment that is perfect for you, if you’re carrying these Nodes. It’s just the right place for you to be. It’s exactly the right configuration. 

If you see these things in the environment around you and if you’re 38/39 Nodally, then you know that everything is the way it’s supposed to be. The point is it is that environment. If you’re operating correctly, that opens the doorway to your purpose. And that’s really what it’s all about. But remember, because you have a Nodal configuration it means you only do see in a certain way. And be clear that if you’re operating correctly, it is that seeing your sensitivity to the particular environment ultimately is the force that enriches your life.


The 52nd and the 58th Nodes
The 52nd Gate: Assessment

This is a fascinating one. When we look at the 52nd gate, Keeping Still Mountain, this is the gate of inaction. It is: The temporary and self-imposed inaction for the benefit of assessment. One of the things to recognize about this Nodal environment is that there are benefits that can be derived from assessment. Yet, the benefits that can be derived from assessment depend on the discipline to be able to self-impose inaction. In other words, it’s the discipline to hold back one’s temptation to deal with the pressures that are going to be there. 

When we’re dealing with the 52/58 as a Nodal environment, we’re dealing with a high pressure environment. We are dealing with two gates that are operating out of the Root Center, and the Root Center is a pressure center. So, the 52/58 as a Nodal configuration represents an environment where there is a great deal of pressure. And that pressure operates at all levels. So there is tremendous pressure in the sense of the 52. There is all this pressure to be active when in fact there is only going to be benefits derived when there is assessment through inaction.

The 58th Gate: Stimulation

On the other side you have the 58th gate, The Joyous, the gate of aliveness. Everything about the nature of Joyous is that it is an enormously powerful pressure force. It is: Stimulation is the key to joy. So here we have this extraordinary pressure to be stimulated. It’s one of the things to understand, this is a logical pressure gate that is all about the logical experience in life, within the language of the circuit, of the logical experiment in life. Of course, the stimulation is absolutely necessary. The more one is stimulated, the more one is identified; the more one is involved, the more joy that can be there. 

So you can see that we have an environment where there is not going to be necessarily enough stimulation. This is one of the themes we’re dealing with when you have the 52/58 as a Nodal environment. This inactivity and lack of stimulation is so much a part of the environment around. People are not assessing things because there is a lack of stimulation. The moment there is something that is offered to do, the background environment is an environment that is filled with people who do not benefit because they are jumping into things. The fact is that if one is not properly stimulated, if there isn’t that stimulation there, then there is no joy. Of course, there is the potential for despair and the potential for darkness that lies on the other side. 

So, this is an environment that is under deep, deep pressure, and an environment that is seeking out something very basic. In other words, it’s seeking an advantage in life. Of course, that advantage in life is two-fold. One part of that advantage is very important. That is, it is the advantage of something as difficult to put a definition on as joy. In other words, life must be more than simply toil. There has to be something in life that is rewarding and fulfilling. So it is an environment that is looking for something greater than what it seems to be, or appears to be in the environment.

The other side, in looking at the 52 is to see this temporary and self-imposed inaction. And of course, this is one of the dilemmas. It is not about not involving oneself in action. The benefit comes from being able to be inactive so that one can focus or concentrate, to be inactive long enough to assess the situation.

This is not the 52/58 as if it were a Profile configuration. This is a Nodal environment. And the thing to be clear about the Nodal environment is what it represents to us personally that this is what we’re sensitive to in the world around us. In other words, if you have the 52/58, you’re going to be sensitive to the fact that there are not enough pauses before it jumps. You’re going to be sensitive to the fact that there’s a real need for stimulation in life and you’re going to see the phenomena of these two gates operating in the environment around you.

It’s the way in which your perspective is attuned. Like always, in order for you to fulfill the potential of your purpose you have to operate correctly as yourself. And in operating correctly as yourself, honoring your strategy and your inner authority, then you’re going to be able to take advantage of the environment and the way in which you perceive it.

The 15th and the 10th Nodes
The 15th Gate: Extremes

The 15th gate, like the 5th gate, the channel 15/5, the Channel of Rhythm, this design of being in the flow, is a universal gate. This is one of the gates of love and it is the gate of the potential love of humanity or not. What is so interesting about the 10/15 polarity is that both of them are essentially about behavior. That is, the 10th gate is about personal behavior and the 15th gate is about collective behavior.

The 15th gate, Modesty, is the quality of behavior that expresses the proper balance between extremes. So if you have the 15th gate as a Nodal configuration, then you know that the environment around you, or at least your sensitivity to the environment, or the way in which you experience the environment around you, is that you will experience an environment in which there is a struggle to find a balance between the extremes. In other words, there is going to be all kinds of behavior in the environmental zone. The people that you’re going to see around you, what you’re going to be attuned to, is that you’re going to be attuned to the extremes in behavior in people in your life, people that are there around you and impacting you in that sense.

The 10th Gate: Behavior

On the other side you have the 10th gate and of course the 10th gate is deeply complex. That is, it is the personal behavior gate that is at the very basis of the integration channels. In other words, it’s at the root of our individuality and this is the gate of the behavior of the self, the gate of Treading. It says: The underlying code of behavior which ensures successful interaction despite circumstances. So, one of the things to see here is that with the Node in the 10th gate, what is there or not, what one is sensitive to is whether the other human beings are operating with an underlying code of behavior. One of the realities of the 10th gate is that if you have the 10th gate in your design and you’re dealing with somebody who doesn’t invariably have a code of behavior, then you’re going to have problems with the way in which they behave. In other words, somebody without a 10th gate, there is no consistency in the way in which they operate.

The 10/15 as a Nodal environment is something that can be an environment in which everything ultimately is about behavior. In other words, that the life platform for the person who has this as a Node, that the real themes of life around them, is whether behavior is going to be correct or not. If the environment doesn’t have an underlying code of behavior, if there is no proper balance between the extremes, this is part of the essential environment for this person that would have this Nodal configuration. 

Remember, the Nodes are not personal. All the other activations that are objects, that are filtering agents in the neutrino stream, are personal. But the Nodes are not personal. They truly are environmental. It is what you connect to in the environment. So, one of the themes for this being is that they’re going to connect to the behavioral level of the environment around them. And the themes that are going to be there around them in their life are the evidence of the problems of extreme behavior, the evidence of the difficulties in life if one doesn’t have an underlying code of behavior that is consistent; all of this is going to be there in the environment. 

But it doesn’t mean that if you have these Nodes that you’re the one that’s going to have difficulty in finding an underlying code of behavior. This is what you’re attuned to in your environment. In being correct within yourself, operating correctly according to your Strategy and your Authority, then the fulfillment of your purpose, the fulfillment of your Profile on your Cross, all becomes possible because it’s operating out of exactly the right environmental foundation. 

Our Nodes really represent the right environment both physically and psychologically for us in order to be able to fulfill our nature. One of the things to see so clearly about the Nodes is that they are wonderful signposts along the way. As you operate more and more correctly as yourself, as you become more aware, you’re seeing changes.

If you have the 10/15, this is what you’re here to see. In other words, you’re here to see the problems in extreme behavior, the problems that exist in not having underlying codes of behavior. You’re here to see that where others may not see it at all. And if you’re not operating correctly, you may not only not see it, but whatever it is and in a lack of understanding of it, you can reject it, and as such try to not see it and fail to live out your potential.


The 12th and 11th Nodes
The Dropping of the Larynx

The 12 and the 11 are one of the most extraordinary of all oppositions. It’s extraordinary in the very personal sense, the personal sense of what it is to be human. It is this opposition that carried one of the most important mutations for humanity in the past. That is, the dropping of the larynx that took place between 80 and 90 thousand years ago. This dropping of the larynx, which was a mutation that is still carried by all females, allowed our vocal chamber to open up. It was a mutation that changed the way in which we breathed. That is, we can no longer breathe and drink at the same time the way our primate ancestors could and our hominid ancestors could.

In opening up the vocal chamber, basically this dropping of the larynx allowed us to be able to create a real profound variety of sound nuances and to have the control to be able to maintain and remember those nuances which ultimately would lead to what we call language. And obviously language is the most extraordinary evolutionary step of humanity in terms of its relationship to all other bio forms. 

This ability to be able to communicate through tonal nuances has allowed us to grow in terms of our self-reflected consciousness. And the capacity of our intelligence has allowed us to grow at an exponential rate so that in a very short period of time, which in geological terms is absolutely nothing, we literally have gone from, at the mental level, from very, very deeply limited primitive mammalian relationship to the environment to where we are today. So the 11/12 is something that’s very significant. When you see the 11/12 within the context of the Nodes, again, remember that the first thing to understand is that if you have these Nodes, this is what you’re going to be sensitive to in the environment around you.

The 12th Gate: Temptation
We begin with looking at the 12. Now the 12 is the quality of restraint. This is the gate of Standstill. It’s the gate of caution. It says: The quality of restraint and importance of meditation and inaction in confronting temptation. So guess what? What are you attuned to? If this is your Node, then you’re attuned to the temptations that are there in the world because it’s all around you. You can see temptation at work all around you and you can see how little meditation and inaction there is in the face of temptation around you.

Remember that this is the environment that is exactly correct for you in order for you to be able to fulfill your own purpose. And if your environment is not filled with the power of temptation, then you’re really not in the right environment. That is, you are not operating correctly. You’re not seeing what you’re here to see. It’s seeing. It’s all about seeing. If you’re operating correctly you’re going to be sensitive to the right things in your environment even though those things may be disturbing, like the results of being moved by temptation before there is meditation. 

The 11th Gate: Action
On the other side we have the 11th gate, the gate of Peace, the gate of ideas, a conceptual gate. It is the harmonic condition in the individual or society that permits assessment before renewed action. Well guess what? You are sensitive then to the whole action process in the world. Temptation and action, temptation and action, temptation and constant action without necessarily the assessment, without that either being a quality of the society or the individual, and you see it all around you. 

So, if you come into the world and you have the 11/12 as a Nodal configuration, then you come into a world of temptation and action. And you come into a world where the way in which the environment can become healthier is when there is meditation, when there is assessment. But it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s there. And it doesn’t necessarily mean that any of that is about you. It’s simply about what you are sensitive to in the environment around you. It is that sensitivity that is the bedrock, because when you are aware of this temptation and action in the world around you, then you’re operating correctly. That for you, there is this opportunity in honoring your inner Authority and your Strategy to fulfill the purpose that is inherent in your Profile.


The 8th and 14th Nodes
The 14th Gate: Accumulation and Retention of Power

This particular polarity is the perfect match of the yin-yang 2nd gate/1st gate polarity.  As a matter of fact, if you put these two polarities together you have complete definition from the Sacral Center running up through the central individual column right to the Throat Center.  It’s very important to keep in mind this connection between the two of them.  

One of the things to realize about the nature of environments in your life is that there are many stages that blend naturally with others.  Obviously, this is a complex environment.  It’s not like each and every one of us is living in their own unique backstage on some movie lot where they have their exclusive group in the environment.  The environment itself is multidimensional.  And within that environment are many aspects.  If you’re somebody that has a 1/2 Nodal configuration and you’re with somebody who has a 14/8 Nodal configuration, this is going to lead to the foregrounding, if I can describe it that way, of the combination of these two.  In other words, that a different kind of background seems to emerge simply out of those forces in the environment on that stage that are highlighted because of that condition.

In dealing with the 8 and the 14, the 14 is Possession in Great Measure.  It is the Sacral energy that drives direction in the life.  This is the accumulation and retention of power through skilled interaction, coupling grace and control.  And it is about an environment where there is an effort to develop skills, but to develop skills that are correct for the energy; in other words, really to be able to use one’s energy correctly.  And in using one’s energy correctly, you can see how many different ways—after all this is the deepest theme of the generative force, is that the generative force becomes frustrated the moment that it is not using its energy correctly.  And everything about the stage of this Nodal environment is where there is going to be this need to use one’s energy correctly.

Now remember, the way in which an environment is described in terms of its lines doesn’t mean that that’s what the environment displays, but it displays the very need for what the environment demands.  In other words, the skilled interaction is not something that is simply there.  It’s something that emerges.  It’s a demand that is there within the environment.  In other words, the environment is calling for skilled interaction.  And of course because it’s calling for it, you already know that skilled interaction can be missing from it.  Otherwise, it wouldn’t be something that was being called.  

The fact that accumulation and retention of power is a thematic of the environment doesn’t mean that everybody in the environment is accumulating and holding power.  It’s that that is the theme of the environment.  And it means there are a lot of people who can’t accumulate and don’t retain power, and of course that creates within that environment the desire to be able to find a way through skilled interaction to be able to do those things.

The 8th Gate: Making a Contribution

On the other side we have the 8th gate.  We have Holding Together, and holding together is the expression in the throat of the creative role model.  It is really about making a contribution in this life in terms of the way it operates as a Profile.  In its Nodal configuration this is about basic worth realized in contributing individual efforts to group goals.  

Now again, think about this within the context of a Nodal environment.  It doesn’t mean that worth is necessarily being realized by individuals contributing to group goals.  But it means that worth can be recognized as being valuable when individuals contribute to group goals.  And then you can end up seeing that a lot of group goals in that environment aren’t being fulfilled because there isn’t that individual contribution that brings that difference, that uniqueness to whatever the experience or the environment demands.  

Nodal environments are not simply a matter of stating: Look, this is what’s there.  It’s also stating at the same time what isn’t there, but what it’s moving towards as well.  And always for you to keep in mind that your Profile doesn’t have to be aligned in that sense, in its value sense, in its analytical language to the environment you’re in.  But it is important for you to see that the fulfillment of your Profile and the fulfillment of your purpose can only take place within such an environment.

The 25th and the 46th Nodes
The 25th Gate: Uncontrived Activities
Here we’re dealing with gates that are part of the Cross of the Vessel of Love.  These are gates of the G Center, so this is very much about identity.  When we’re looking at this as a Nodal environment, we can see that this is a Nodal environment that is going to be populated by very strong identity.  In other words, it’s going to be populated by background characters that are really going to stand out in their way and stand out as identities.  But it’s also about love.  And of course, one of the themes of this Nodal configuration is that you’re going to have an environment very much so in which love is a very dynamic theme.  That love is there one way or another.

When we’re looking at the 25, we have the perfection of action through uncontrived and spontaneous nature.  So, there is an environment in which there is a great deal of relative innocence.  In other words, it appears that when one looks at this environment that the activities are uncontrived.  That it appears that life itself is a matter of simply being able to deal with things at the existential level in order to be able to maintain one’s particular innocence.

The 46th Gate: Effort and Dedication
If you look at the 46th gate, this is good fortune that may be perceived as the result of serendipity but derives from effort and dedication.  This makes the 46th gate as a Nodal stage quite difficult because it’s the perception of the environment that you’re in that it appears that the environment is about luck or the lack of luck.  It doesn’t appear that the environment is about effort and dedication.  And in fact, discovering that it is a matter of effort and dedication is going to be one of the things that leads to the fulfillment of the purpose, whatever the purpose may be that’s related to this Nodal configuration.  

After all, the fact that the Nodes happen to be in Vessel gates does not mean that this is the Cross of the Vessel.  It’s just a way of indicating certain values to what the gates happen to be.  This is simply going to be a Nodal configuration.  And obviously, the being that has this can have any kind of Cross with any kind of profile configuration.

One of the things to keep in mind is that when you’re dealing with the 25/46, there are two loves at work here: One is universal love and one is the love of the body.  The 25th gate is very much synonymous with the practice of religion.  That is, the 25th gate is the gate of the priest and the priestess.  One of the things about the background in a 25 stage is that there is always going to be a certain amount of religiosity, spirituality, even the potential of shamanism that is in the background of that 25.  

Cutting Through Appearances
This configuration is a very interesting configuration.  Yet, at the same time, it’s very, very deceptive.  It appears through the 25/46 that the background environment is nothing more than being able to act innocently in the now and, in that, one is either lucky or not.  And that appears to be the way life works in the background.  

Remember that what the Nodal environment represents is an opportunity for you to be able to fulfill your purpose.  This is the stage upon which your purpose can be fulfilled.  So, for somebody who enters in with this Nodal configuration, what they’re going to have to deal with is cutting through the appearances that are there.  This is very much the dilemma of this Nodal configuration.  

The other side of that is there is within the 25th gate the potential,  also there in the Channel of Initiation, this potential of competitiveness, to realize that the 46th gate is very much caught up in the dilemmas of whether one can be a success or not.  So, you have these two forces that are also in the background, that underneath that innocence is actually a deep competitiveness; underneath that “well, it’s all a matter of luck,”  it is a lot of very hard work in the sense of hard work trying to get to a point of success.

In the end, such a configuration that is the stage that is being set is very much about whether or not one can be content within oneself, because if one sees the environment and one is able to see beneath the surface of the environment, it can be something that brings a great deal of disillusion.  The 25/46 is a fascinating opposition.  It is an opposition that brings the illusion that needs to be penetrated.

The 36th and the 6th Nodes
The 36th Gate: Crisis and Inexperience
This is, at its very best, a difficult environment in which to find one’s purpose.  When I say it’s a difficult environment to find one’s purpose that isn’t to say that truly it’s any different than any other environment.  However, from the outside looking in at it, it appears to be an uncomfortable environment in which to develop.

The 36th gate is a gate of conflict.  The 36th gate, the Darkening of the Light, is a gate of crisis and inexperience.  Yet, clearly this is an environment, like all nodal environments that is the precise environment necessary for the fulfillment of whatever the purpose happens to be in its Cross and Profile structure.

The 6th Gate: Friction
With the 6 we’re dealing with: The fundamental design component of progress; the law that growth cannot exist without friction.  The 6th gate is part of the channel of intimacy.  That is, its harmonic gate, the 59th gate is the genetic imperative for bonding.  This is a channel that is about the potential fertility and reproductive capacity of humanity.  The 6th gate is very much related to whether or not we are not open or not, opened or closed to intimacy.  It is the 6th gate and its emotional context.  Here we’re dealing with an emotional environment.  I think this is one of the things that make this polarity difficult as a stage upon which the life is set, one in which there is no release from emotional tension and the emotional wave.

In dealing with the 6, one has to see that if this is your South Node phase then it’s very clear that what you’re going to see around you in the environment—and remember when I talk about this environment I’m talking about the people that populate the environment.  These beings that populate the environment are going to be caught up in friction.  One is going to have to develop and find one’s purpose in an environment where human beings are in conflict, the conflict in and of itself results in friction.  And yet, the very conflict can be productive.  In other words, out of that very conflict and friction can come the potential of new life, can come the potential of growth, and can come the potential of development.

But it does mean that when you’re meeting somebody who has this as a Nodal configuration, that it’s clear that the beings that are around them in their life one cannot expect to enter into a peaceful and prosaic environment because it’s not going to be there.  This is going to be an environment that is going to be full of tension.

An Environment Full of Trauma, Crisis and Sexuality
On the other side we have the 36th gate which is the gate of crisis: The rule of cycles in which decline is a natural but not an enduring stage. Of course, one gets to see that in the environment around them there are all these beings that get to see that the experience of life can be devastating, that there isn’t necessarily progress at the end of the line.  In other words, this combination of the 6 and the 36, these are beings that are going to have to find their purpose in an environment that is full of trauma, which is full of crisis.  And in an environment that is highly sexual in its content.  In other words, that sexuality is going to be very much a part of the background of this particular process.  

Regardless of whether you’re moving from the 36 to the 6 or the 6 to the 36, the thing to keep in mind about the Nodal environment is that it is not about whether the Nodal environment in and of itself is isolated, as we are isolating them here, is ‘this or that,’ whether it is a good environment or a difficult environment or a fascinating environment or as, in this case, an environment that is very much connected to the emotional turmoil of the difficulties of life, of the commonality of conflict and friction and the deep fears of experiential failure and the dilemmas and inadequacies of experience, the real key is simply to operate correctly as oneself.

If this is your nodal configuration and you’re operating correctly according to your Authority and your Strategy, then you will fulfill your purpose.  And this, as an environment, will not be one in which you measure against others, but will be the perfect environment for you to find your purpose.

The 22nd and the 47th Nodes
The 22nd Gate: The Mundane and Trivial

The 22nd gate is the gate of Grace. It says: A quality of behavior best suited in handling mundane and trivial situations. This is an emotional gate. It’s an emotional individual gate that has a deep sensitivity to the acoustic field. One of the things about having this as a stage stetting in one’s life is that this is very much a very alive environment. In other words, it is the mundane and the trivial and everything that comes with the mundane and trivial. 

It is about having the behavior that operates correctly within that mundane framework. In other words, this is very much a polarity that puts one very deeply into the world and into the world in order to have the potential to mutate in that world. But also recognize the essence of this grace; in other words, to know how to be a part of the deep mundane plane.

The 47th Gate: Constraints
On the other side we have a mental gate. We have the 47th gate coming out of the Ajna Center, a conceptualizing gate, the gate of Oppression. It says: A restrictive and adverse state as a result of internal weakness or external strength or both. In dealing with this polarity not only are you dealing with the mundane plane, but you’re dealing with an environment in which there are tremendous constraints within the environment itself. In other words, the stage itself is filled with external forces that are restrictive, that will get in one’s way.

Remember that when you’re seeing this within the Nodal framework, what you’re talking about is the background environment that is necessary for you to be able to fulfill your purpose. It isn’t in and of itself a negative nor is it necessarily something that is describing you other than if you are deeply open to conditioning that you become very much like the background of your environment. In other words, you end up feeling restricted. You end up feeling internally weak because you are overwhelmed by the strength of the forces around you.

Yet, in order for you to fulfill your purpose, you need to have an environment; you need to have a background where you deal with all of these forces, to deal with all of these forces and yet at the same time to be able to deal with them with grace. You can see the coupling of this polarity, this mirror to each other how fascinating their connection truly is.

South Node in the 47th Gate
Now, if you’re starting with the 47, a South Node 47 moving towards a North Node 22, then the dilemma may be being overwhelmed by the power of the environment around you. Again, depending on your ability to operate correctly or not, you’re going to be able to find your way, to make your way in that environment, to make sense out of it. And in making sense out of it, being able to fulfill whatever your purpose has to be relative to that environment.

If it’s moving to the 22, obviously as you move towards the midlife point you begin to develop that quality of behavior that can handle those mundane and trivial situations. In other words, you go through this process and ultimately there is this potential for the perfection of one’s ability to be able to deal with that environment. More than that, ultimately the emotional root to be able to mutate others within the context of that environment.

South Node in the 22nd Gate
Whether you’re moving from the 22 to 47 or not, you begin with this behavioral process in an environment that is mundane and trivial. Let’s say you have the 22 as the South Node and you come into this life and you’re conditioned to see the trivial and mundane as inferior, unimportant and insignificant in your life. One of the things to recognize about being able to operate correctly as oneself is that not only are we here to accept the stage upon which our life is intended to unfold, not just simply accept it, but exalt in it.

It’s not simply a matter of saying “Oh, jeez, here’s my life and it’s full of this mundane and trivial blah, blah, blah.” It isn’t about that. It’s about recognizing that it’s only out of that platform that the possibility for you to fulfill your purpose even exists. 


The 63rd and the 64th Nodes
South Node in the 64th Gate 

This is quite an unusual opposition. It’s an unusual opposition in the way in which it operates within the Bodygraph because here in the 63 and in the 64, you are dealing with the collective pressure of the mind; that is, the collective pressure of the Head Center. The 63, After Completion, is the pressure for the logical mental process and the 64, Before Completion—and of course, the irony of these names—the 64, Before Completion, is the pressure for the abstract process.


Obviously, any kind of Nodal activation of this polarity is going to indicate a very, very powerful mental background for the life story. The stage is an intellectual stage. And it is a stage that is going to be steeped in thought. Yet, at the same time to see very clearly that it is a transition in life. It’s a very deep transition in life. And it is very different depending on which way you go; in other words, whether you’re going from the logical doubt to the abstract confusion or from the abstract confusion to the logical doubt. 

In other words, this is an intellectual process. And the thing to see is that the Nodes always represent not simply the thematic of the stage that is set, but they also represent the characteristics, or the characters that are going to fill the background of that stage. For example, if you have a 64 South Node, this is not simply that there is this intellectual process of trying to make sense out of experience and the past, but also to recognize that the characters that are going to populate the background are going to suffer from confusion. And it’s the very confusion of the environment that is going to nurture this pressure to resolve what the confusion comes from.

South Node in the 63rd Gate
After all, depending on the nature of one’s Profile and one’s Cross, in terms of what is the role of purpose in life, that that role of purpose has to be accomplished in an environment where there’s going to be a great deal of confusion or an environment where there is going to be a great deal of doubt. It’s so interesting to see that in this configuration if one is looking at the 63, that one can see very clearly that to be in an intellectual environment of doubt and questioning is also to be in a deeply nurturing intellectual environment as a potential. It can also be very distressing and depressing. 

The Determined Strength to Move Through the Spiral
Again, it will depend on the nature of that being and how they are going to operating in their life. After all, the fact that there is a Nodal environment for us means that unless we are aware of the environment, we’re very far away from being correct. And the more correct we are, the clearer it is that this is the environment that we have to work with and the characters on the stage that we have to deal with who influence us in terms of the way in which their auras operate. 

The 63rd gate is: in the spiral of life all ends are beginnings; and the 64 is: transition, like birth, requires a determined strength for the passage through. It is this determined strength to move through the spiral, the continuity of the process, all of this is background of this particular environment. 

These Beings Are Deeply Influenced By the Intellectual Process in Life
Whether you’re moving from the 63 to the 64 or from the 64 to the 63, everything about your development is that you are here to be deeply influenced by the intellectual process in life. It is essential for you to be in an environment where there are those that stimulate that capacity, that to be in the right environment regardless of whether the environment is filled with confusion or the environment is filled with doubt, the moment that one is truly entrenched in such an environment therein lies the deep potential to fulfill one’s purpose within that context.

This is the magic of the Nodes. They’re wonderful. They set the stage. But more than just the scenery, they fill the stage with the beings that are going to be part of that environment that nurtures your potential for purpose.

The 37th and the 40th Nodes
Gates 37/40: One of the Three Oppositions in the Wheel

There are three oppositions in the wheel that form definitions in the Bodygraph. The 37/40 is one of these oppositions. This particular polarity, because it forms the definition in the Bodygraph, the synthesis is already there in the sense of the quantum representation of this polarity, is the Channel of Community. Something very easy to grasp when you’re looking at these three variations is that their true nature as an environment is already being expressed. The only difference is that under the general generic there are going to be two different ways in which the scene of life is going to unfold.

Gate 37: The Channel of Community
When we’re dealing with the channel 40/37, we’re dealing with the Channel of Community. This is a design of being a part seeking a whole. So this is really the theme of the background. In other words, this is going to take place in an environment where the parts are always seeking to be part of the whole. That is simply going to be the scene setting.

However, the way in which the process is going to operate will depend whether it begins with the South Node 37 or a South Node 40. We are dealing with Tribal Circuitry and we’re dealing with a theme of need. The theme of need in the Tribe operates through three gates: the 19, 49 and the 37. But it does not operate through the 40. The 40 is a gate of denial; one of the two gates of denial, both of which are tribal. That is, the 40 and the 26.

Need and Denial
So what you’re dealing with in terms of the 40 and the 37, on one side you’re dealing with a need, an emotional expression of need. On the other side you’re dealing with an ego expression of denial. So the way in which the scene is going to operate is in the background of the community and in the background of the social bargain. In the background of the marriage contract there is going to be these two sides. Either one is going to begin from a position of denial and move towards a position of need, or one is going to move from the need to the denial.

But the reality is that it’s all going to take place in the background of the community. If purpose is going to be fulfilled for this being, then that purpose is going to be fulfilled within that community concept because that is where the lessons have to be learned. That is where the potential of the profile is going to have its opportunity to be fulfilled.

South Node in the 37th Gate
When you’re looking at the combinations in this polarity, keep in mind that you’re dealing with two very, very different kinds of motors of energy sources. If you begin your process as a 37 South Node, you’re dealing with a dense emotional environment. In the emotional environment, all the needs are things that rise and crash. That is, they rise and fall. There is always going to be this emotional dilemma and this emotional clouding as long as beings are operating existentially. 

The reality is that when you’re starting from the 37, you have to see that there is no clarity in the first half of your life, and it’s very difficult to find the clarity. So you end up needing to be clear and living in an environment where clarity is missing. Obviously, if you’re operating correctly as yourself, and if you’re operating correctly within that environment, rather than being a victim of the emotional confusion of the backdrop in your life, you can take advantage of that, grow wise in its nature.

South Node in the 40th Gate
The same thing is true when you’re looking at the ego configuration of the 40. After all, the ego is a motor and the motor is will. Of course, one of the things to be very clear about is that if you begin your life with the South Node in the 40, that putting your shoulder to the wheel or not, whether you’re going to use your energy or not, that’s really going to be the theme. Of course, the background for you is going to be all of this willfulness as a thematic that you’re intended to see, and a willfulness that can be full of denial. 

This polarity, like anything, automatically brings emotional authority into the bearer’s design. Of course, it is this emotional authority that will speak to the correctness of whether or not this being can fulfill its purpose on this Nodal theme. And all of it will have to do with how they deal with their emotional system.


The 55th and the 59th Nodes
The South Node is the 55th Gate: Abundance

I suppose that there is no other opposition that is more fascinating in the wheel right now because of the fact that the 55th gate is a gate that is deeply individual and is the core of a very large mutative process and is under mutative pressure. This is the gate of Abundance, and abundance is simply a question of spirit. Of course, this is the uncertainty principal that operates at its deepest in this individual emotional gate. It’s one of the things to understand about the background that it’s going to provide in terms of the environment, that is an environment of emotional uncertainty.

So, if you have the 55th gate as the South Node phase, then the environment that you grow up in is an environment of emotional uncertainty where there is this movement from the spirit that embraces it and the spirit that lose its very innocence.

The 59th Gate: Dispersion

On the other side we have the 59th gate and the 59th gate is this mirror. This mirror is a role gate. That is, it’s one of the genetic role gates. It’s the genetic imperative, the role in bonding, the role for mating in life. The 59th gate is Dispersion, the gate of sexuality. This is the ability to break down barriers to achieve union. One has to see that the fact that the 55th gate is under mutation also means that its polarity, its mirror is under mutation as well. Our sexual roles are under mutative pressure as well.

The 59th gate, after all, is an imperative gate. It means that that is an imperative that is going to be deeply in the background of one’s process. Remember, everything about the Nodal environment is that it’s the Nodal environment that provides you with the opportunity to live your purpose. For example, the 59 Nodal environment is an environment where the focus is on the bond. And the focus is on the making of bonds. The focus is on the breaking down of barriers to be able to get through those bonds. 

Think about what it means to have that as a Nodal gate. What it means is that is the frame of your life. In other words, around you this is going to be the dynamic theme, this is going to be the theme of the world that you’re living in. And obviously, it connects you to that world. But it also says that you also have to be able to deal with this imperative in that world, that’s why it’s there, to give that background in order for you to be able to fulfill your purpose.

South Node in the 59th Gate

If you’re dealing with the whole process as a changing scene in the life, if you begin with the 59 you go through this background of everything that is about finding the other. Everything is about breaking through the barrier to get to the other. But the fact of the matter is that as you move into the second half of that process, there is this deep emotional uncertainty about the quality of the bonds that one has and whether the bonds were really worthwhile, because that’s the framework that is there in the background.

South Node in the 55th Gate

If you begin with the 55 as your process, again, because this is an emotional configuration, you have to recognize that if the emotional system is not operating correctly, then emotional decisions are being made in the now where there is no truth. And that the uncertainty principle that is there inherent in the 55th gate can simply lead to a world of emotional confusion that becomes a need for the other. 

To operate correctly is to take advantage of the environment. That’s what it’s there for. And it’s the very specifics of that environment that nurtures the correctness of one’s fulfillment of purpose. So here in this particular configuration is the uncertainty about the value of achieving union. This is the background to fulfill the purpose of that being in its life.


The 30th and the 29th Nodes
The 30th Gate: Clinging Fire 

The 30th gate, The Clinging Fire, is in the emotional system. This is the gate of the fates, freedom recognized as an illusion and limitation accepted as a fate. So one of the things to understand about this as a stage that’s being set for a process, if this is the South Node phase, then one is going to have in one’s background the ability to be able to see and recognize the illusion of freedom, and perhaps, be able to see that limitation accepted is something that is an act of transcendence. But literally, in terms of a background environment, one is going to see all kinds of forces in one’s life hit a brick wall.
 
And whether it’s your family hitting a brick wall materially, or whether it’s a health issue, or whatever the case may be, in the background of your movie with that 30th gate being there, the hand of the fates are going to be there in the environment. It also means that because this is the environment that is going to surround you, and because the characters in the environment are going to be dealing with the consequences of this field, the way in which you’re going to fulfill your own purpose is going to be through the acceptance of this environment. In other words, you are going to have to fulfill your purpose through the recognition that freedom is an illusion, and that limitation is something that can only be surrendered to.
 
The 29th Gate: The Abysmal 

On the other side, you have the 29th gate and this is The Abysmal. It’s the deep within the deep; persistence despite difficulties has its inevitable rewards. This is all about saying yes, it’s all about making commitments. But this is about persistence. As a background frequency the stage is being set, there is an environment where persistence is everywhere, where there is always going to be those that are going to demonstrate the benefits of keeping your shoulder to the wheel because ultimately there are rewards.
 
The South Node in the 29th Gate 

When you’re looking at this movement as scenery in the background of somebody’s life, obviously the 29 to the 30 is very different from the 30 to 29. But the thing to recognize clearly about this is that if you’re beginning with the 29, then one of the things to see is that with that first period, the rewards are not there in that phase. That is, in the first half of the life it is the persistence that is going to be the teaching instrument of the environment around you. And that it is only through persistence that ultimately you can get to the reward of the recognition that’s on the other side, that it’s in the hands of the fates. And regardless of how persistent you are going to be, the rewards are always going to be limited to the hand of the fates.
 
The South Node in the 30th Gate
 
But if you start with the 30th gate, if you begin this process of dealing with limitation, remember that one can only accept limitation when one has accepted oneself. For the not-self to begin with the 30th gate as a South Node can often be exceedingly difficult, particularly if one is a 3rd line. One is going to meet the difficulties of life. One is going to constantly face up to the reality that there is no real freedom. That everything about life is a limitation and unless one is operating correctly, one is not going to be able to take advantage of that environment. Remember that the Nodes represent the stage upon which you can fulfill your purpose. But the purpose inherent in the Profile only resonates to your environment when you’re operating correctly. Otherwise, it doesn’t. 

And of course, the very environment itself can become a negative in one’s life, an environment where one simply throws up one’s hands in the air because there is no freedom, throws one’s hands up in the air because there is only limitation. And of course, out of that does not come the necessary transcendence. Yet, somebody who has this as a South Node theme when they move into their North Node phase, in the end the only solution is to put your shoulder to the wheel; this is what is all around you. That those, despite the illusions, simply maintain what their life force is committed to, what it is to simply be. But the secret always is to honor your authority, to follow your strategy. And in operating correctly, you will take advantage of that environment and your purpose can be fulfilled. 

The 49th and the 4th Nodes
Doubt and Questioning

The 49th gate, Revolution, in the Quarter of Initiation, and opposite is the 4th gate,Youthful Folly in the Quarter of Duality. What you have here as a Nodal environment that is the revolutionary formula; this synthetic formula combination that is the Nodal environment or the Nodal background. It means it combines two things: an environment of doubt and questioning. An environment of doubt and questioning is something that can be deeply, deeply stimulating in the life. This environment leads to trying to come up with resolutions to whatever the doubt in the environment has to be.

The South Node in the 4th Gate
Remember that to have a Nodal environment that is rooted, for example, in doubt—let's say you have a South Node that is a 4—is to recognize that this is not about creating uncertainty in your life but it's about stimulating the intellectual development and the discussion of doubts, and trying to resolve them ultimately for the benefit of humanity. This is one of those environments that is very, very important in terms of stimulation intellectually.

The 49th Gate: Revolution
The 49th gate on the other side is in the realm of initiation, this is Revolution and this is all about the potential for transformation of society based on the highest principles. When you see this in a background, you can see it in one of two ways and they're quite different in the way they operate.

The South Node in the 4th Gate
If you're starting with the 4 as the South Node theme, in that intellectual environment, the doubts ultimately are going to be focused on the impact of society. This is the thematic within this opposition. The doubts will lead to intellectual investigation. Basically, the logical process, in terms of the logical formula, is trying to find a pattern in which there is freedom from punishment. In other words, a
pattern in which everyone can operate in way in which it is comfortable for them and is not offensive to the other. All of this, ultimately, is about a social transition.

If you're going from the 4 to the 49, you can go through this process of the doubts and the intellectual environment that investigates its social reality. This, by the way, doesn't have to be just intellectual. It can be very much involved with an emotional reaction to it. In other words, in the background you are going to have people who are always discussing the problems that are there in the world around them.

Ultimately this can lead to revolution. It can lead to a new standard, or the establishment of a different way in which the environment operates. Or, the very fact that you can move from your doubts about a particular environment only to see it flourish as you move towards the second half of your life.

The South Node in the 49th Gate
If you're operating from the 49 as the South Node, then you have to see that at the very beginning of your process, the environment is going to be one in which the community is going to be rigidly established on specific principles and you're going to have to move through this society and the way the rules have been laid out. Only when you get to the second half of your life are there really going to be doubts that emerge about that society.

Remember, when I say doubts emerge, it's going to be because the environment offers you those opportunities to see the doubts. The environment is going to be full of background characters who are in the play of your life revealing and sharing their doubts. This is an environmental background.

The fact that we act in a certain way according to that background is because we are literally caught in its conditioning field. And yet, this is the stage upon which we can fulfill our purpose. And as always, that goes back to the basics of Human Design: Operate correctly according to your Strategy, according to your Inner Authority and take advantage of the stage upon which your life is set.

http://www.ihdschool.com/Blogs/3838/Ra_Uru_Hu