The 17th and 18th Nodes
The 17th and 18th Gates: See a World that Needs to be Fixed
The 17 and the 18 are perhaps the most critical of all the gates in Design. That is, these are logical gates.  The logical gate as the stream itself, and as the circuit itself, is deeply concerned with the future.  Everything about logic is about laying down a pattern foundation that will make the future more secure.  In the 18th gate, Work on What has been Spoiled, we have a logical correction, the logical challenge, the challenge to the pattern to make sure that the pattern operates correctly for the benefit of the collective.  In the 17th gate, we have the intellectual mirror of this.  That is, we have the gate of opinions, Following, and all of this about organizing through concepts the collective, and organizing the collective for the betterment of humanity as it moves into the future.  

So when we’re dealing with the 17 and the 18, one of the things to recognize about this as a Nodal polarity is this is the world that needs to be fixed.  And it’s something very important to understand if these are your Nodes.  In other words, the stage upon which your life is set is the stage upon which you get to see the realities of the society that you’re living in.  The 17 says:  The ancient law that those who wish to rule must know how to serve.  And of course, there is this learning process that is deeply a part of this.  But it’s more than that.  That is, that ruling and serving are the themes and are the themes of the way in which society functions successfully or not.  In other words, there are those who are ruling in the background and are doing disservice to humanity, there are those who are serving who are benefiting humanity, and there is this basic conflict about what will be the correct way.

The 18th Gate: Vigilance
When you’re dealing with the 18, this is vigilance and determination to uphold and defend basic and fundamental human rights.  If you’re born with the South Node 18, one of the things that you’re going to see in the first part of your life, the background of that part of your life is the denial of fundamental and basic human rights.  And whether that denial of rights happens to be in your own backyard or in some place on the other side of the globe, the reality is that it’s going to be very much a part of the stage upon which you have the potential to fulfill your purpose.  

Both the 17 and the 18 are there to serve humanity, and so, this need of humanity is what is going to be the most obvious in the stage that is set. In other words, having these as Nodes is going to place you in a world in which you see constantly the need for correction, the need to defend the basic and fundamental human rights of humanity, the need to organize humanity in a way in which it’s going to be more successful for them, and that their future is going to be better protected.  In other words, there is a fundamental background of inequality and problems that are going to be very much a part of this person’s life, and that they are going to be able to fulfill their specific purpose through this.

Again, remember that when we’re dealing with the Nodal polarity, we’re not talking about a Cross in that sense.  We’re not talking about the imprinting of the Sun/Earth, which is 70% of our imprinting.  We’re talking about an environment in which that imprinting is going to work with.  So, when you’re looking at the 17 and the 18 as a Nodal polarity, if you saw this in its right angle variation, you would see this is an arm of The Cross of Service.  In other words, at the personality level, at the design level, at the Profile level, this is all about being of benefit to humanity.  But when it’s a Nodal environment, it does not mean that your purpose is to be of service.  

What it does mean is that the very environment that you’re going to have to develop in is an environment where there are vast problems in the way in which humanity operates; that there are things all around you that point to the lack of human rights, and that point to fundamental dilemmas that are there in humanity that need to be corrected.  It does not mean necessarily that your purpose is fulfilled through correcting them, that your purpose is fulfilled through being in that environment, because it is that environment that nurtures whatever your purpose happens to be.
