The 51st and 57th Nodes
The 51st Gate: Disorder and Shock
The 51st gate is The Arousing.  It’s the gate of shock.  And it is: The ability to respond to disorder and shock through recognition and adaptation.  When we’re talking about this—this is the Nodal environment—it’s clear that we’re going to have a stage upon which disorder and shock are going to be the meat of that environment, and you’re going to deal with beings who are representatives of that disorder.  You’re going to see dysfunction in the society and there’s going to be shock that is around.  

Again, it’s not so much that the shock is personal, but the shock is in the environment, one sees the results of that.  The other thing is the 51st gate is about bravery or foolishness or courage.  All of these are aspects of the environment that is going to be there when you have a 51st Node.  In other words, that environment is trying to deal with the disorder and the shock.  

The 57th Gate: Fear
On the other side, you have the 57th gate, The Gentle, and this is an extraordinary gate.  It is the deepest theme of intuition that we have coming out of the spleen.  The 57th gate operates uniquely in the sense that it is operating through three other gates—its connection to the 34, the 10 or the 20 in what is both integration and the individual process.  This is: The extraordinary power of clarity.  

But again, to really grasp the depth of the 57 as a Nodal environment is to understand that this is a Nodal environment where the real theme is the fear of tomorrow.  And what you’re looking at when you’re dealing with a 51/57 Nodal environment is that you’re dealing with an environment that is not stable.  There is a great deal of fear.  There is a great deal of fear for survival.  There is a great deal of fear about what’s going to happen tomorrow.  Again, that means that one can end up being in an environment where those fears are all around.  

On the other side, you have the shock and the disorder that is also going to be there in the background.  When you’re looking at this from an isolated perspective, as I do here, one would think that this could be a very, very disturbing framework upon which to find one’s purpose.  And yet recognize clearly, that the Nodes that you have through the genetic continuity of your being are precisely the environment that’s necessary.  

When you’re looking at this from the outside one tends, in the duality, to pass judgment.  We’re always caught in measurement; we’re always caught in this and that.  So, we look at a configuration like this in which there is the fear for survival and the fear for tomorrow, and the shock and disorder, and we think, “Oh isn’t that terrible to come in on that configuration!”  But this is truly a lack of awareness.  In other words, there is no way that you can pass that kind of judgment on it.  In fact, to really understand any polarity is to recognize that every polarity can be hell and every polarity can be heaven.  And it is not about the polarity.  It is truly about the being.

All Environments Are Correct for the True Self
The most fascinating thing about purpose—that is, the nature of one’s Profile and one’s Cross—is that it can only be fulfilled within the context of the environment of the life.  They’re made for each other.  And of course, if you’re operating as the not-self, then you have no access to your role.  You’re caught in the characteristics of your Bodygraph.  And as long as you’re caught in the characteristics, this kind of Nodal environment can be deeply disturbing because it becomes part of the conditioning field.  That one ends up being conditioned to be afraid of tomorrow, to be fearful, to be caught in a life of disorder, to be caught in a life that is punctuated by shock.  
But the moment that one goes beyond the characteristics and one is able to operate correctly as oneself and begins to live out the true nature of one’s role, then you discover that this is the ideal environment because it is the environment that is there to nurture that perfection of you as a unique and differentiated being.  It’s all about you acting correctly as yourself, based on your Strategy and based on your Authority.  Only then can you take advantage of such a challenging polarity.
posted on December 6
