The 55th and the 59th Nodes
The South Node is the 55th Gate: Abundance

I suppose that there is no other opposition that is more fascinating in the wheel right now because of the fact that the 55th gate is a gate that is deeply individual and is the core of a very large mutative process and is under mutative pressure. This is the gate of Abundance, and abundance is simply a question of spirit. Of course, this is the uncertainty principal that operates at its deepest in this individual emotional gate. It’s one of the things to understand about the background that it’s going to provide in terms of the environment, that is an environment of emotional uncertainty.

So, if you have the 55th gate as the South Node phase, then the environment that you grow up in is an environment of emotional uncertainty where there is this movement from the spirit that embraces it and the spirit that lose its very innocence.

The 59th Gate: Dispersion

On the other side we have the 59th gate and the 59th gate is this mirror. This mirror is a role gate. That is, it’s one of the genetic role gates. It’s the genetic imperative, the role in bonding, the role for mating in life. The 59th gate is Dispersion, the gate of sexuality. This is the ability to break down barriers to achieve union. One has to see that the fact that the 55th gate is under mutation also means that its polarity, its mirror is under mutation as well. Our sexual roles are under mutative pressure as well.

The 59th gate, after all, is an imperative gate. It means that that is an imperative that is going to be deeply in the background of one’s process. Remember, everything about the Nodal environment is that it’s the Nodal environment that provides you with the opportunity to live your purpose. For example, the 59 Nodal environment is an environment where the focus is on the bond. And the focus is on the making of bonds. The focus is on the breaking down of barriers to be able to get through those bonds. 

Think about what it means to have that as a Nodal gate. What it means is that is the frame of your life. In other words, around you this is going to be the dynamic theme, this is going to be the theme of the world that you’re living in. And obviously, it connects you to that world. But it also says that you also have to be able to deal with this imperative in that world, that’s why it’s there, to give that background in order for you to be able to fulfill your purpose.

South Node in the 59th Gate

If you’re dealing with the whole process as a changing scene in the life, if you begin with the 59 you go through this background of everything that is about finding the other. Everything is about breaking through the barrier to get to the other. But the fact of the matter is that as you move into the second half of that process, there is this deep emotional uncertainty about the quality of the bonds that one has and whether the bonds were really worthwhile, because that’s the framework that is there in the background.

South Node in the 55th Gate

If you begin with the 55 as your process, again, because this is an emotional configuration, you have to recognize that if the emotional system is not operating correctly, then emotional decisions are being made in the now where there is no truth. And that the uncertainty principle that is there inherent in the 55th gate can simply lead to a world of emotional confusion that becomes a need for the other. 

To operate correctly is to take advantage of the environment. That’s what it’s there for. And it’s the very specifics of that environment that nurtures the correctness of one’s fulfillment of purpose.
