The 20th and 34th Nodes
The 20th Gate: Action

We have already been through one opposition that forms a definition and that was the 43/23.  Now we are dealing with the second opposition in the wheel, and this is the channel 20/34, the Channel of Charisma.  In dealing with this Channel of Charisma, a design where thoughts must be deeds, we are dealing with the only pure example of what is a Manifesting Generator.  In other words, this is the pure Manifesting Generator, the direct connection, the only direct connection that exists between the Sacral and the Throat Center.

Remember that when we’re dealing with a Nodal environment and the Nodal environment is an opposition that forms a definition, you cannot really speak uniquely of one gate process or the other.  You’re dealing with the entire flow that is there in the channel.  The 20th gate is the gate of Contemplation.  It is the only existentialist gate.  It is the gate of the now: Recognition and awareness in the now which transforms understanding into right action.  So one of the things to see about the environment of this is that the environment is always about action, and not necessarily whether the action is right or not, because after all, in order for the action to be right or not, recognition and awareness have to be a part of it.

The 34th Gate: Drive to Survive

If you go to the other side to the 34th gate, we’re dealing with The Power of the Great.  This is an extraordinary gate because here in dealing with the 20/34 we’re dealing with an aspect of what is called integration.  That is, a four-channel system that really is the genetic spine of what it is for us to be human.  It is the root of our capacity to survive in the world.  It is the basic drive to survive.  The 34th gate empowers that through its connection to the 57, the archetype, its connection to the 10th gate, the gate of behavior in which you have the following of one’s convictions, the power to follow one’s convictions as an archetype, and ultimately to be able to do so, and to be able to do so, charismatically.  

In other words, the power of the 34 to the 20 to drive us to activity in the now, one of the great dilemmas of the Manifesting Generator is that its archetype is this enormous pressure to be active in the now.  The power of the 34 is only great when its display or use serves the common good.  Now it’s only great, and the action is only right, and it’s all about the same thing.  It’s about awareness.  
Awareness is the deepest key to understanding this Nodal environment.  In other words, if you come into this life and you come into a 20/34 Nodal environment, you come into an environment that lacks awareness.  It is a world of action not guided.  It is a world of the display of power, but not necessarily or even ever to the benefit of the common good.  In other words, this can be a kind of treadmill environment that one goes into in which there is all of this frustrated attempt at action, and that the frustrated attempt at action leads to the frustrated display of power, and all of that is coming out in the now and none of that is correct because there is not the recognition and awareness.

One of the most fascinating things about these first two oppositions that we’ve looked at that form definition, that is the 43/23 and the 20/34, is that they have a very unique relationship to each other.  The 20/34 is here to be guided.  Remember that this is a Sacral being.  This is a Generator.  And despite the potential that it has within it to manifest, to be able to do things, to be able to actually take right action, that right action can only be a matter of response.  And it’s very, very difficult because this is so individual and it’s individual in the deepest sense.  It is integration/ individual and it’s very difficult to influence these forces because they’re not designed to be influenced.  It’s exceedingly difficult to tell them what to do.  

It’s very difficult to tell a 20/34 to stop initiating.  But from a 43/23 there is always the possibility from the resonance in the circuitries, the resonance in the configuration.  That is, they are oppositions that form definition and they have a deep relationship to each other.  The 20/34 needs guidance, and the guidance is not control.  The guidance isn’t even direction.  The guidance is the ability to present the 20/34 with options that they can respond to.  And through that response, through operating correctly, they can fulfill their potential.  

But remember, as a Nodal environment you’re coming into a Nodal environment where there is incorrect action and incorrect displays of power, and it’s on that stage that you have to fulfill your purpose if this is your Nodal polarity. 
