The 13th and 7th Gate Nodal Polarity
The 13th and 7th Gate Nodal Polarity

Identity Gates
The 13th gate is the Fellowship of Man and the 7th gate is the gate of the Army. Both of these gates are role gates. And they are role gates in the G Center. In their right angle configuration, they form an arm of the Cross of the Sphinx. Each gate, the 13 and the 7, are gates of the Sphinx, this polarity on either end is the very beginning of a quarter in the wheel. The 13th gate is the first hexagram of the Quarter of Initiation, and the 7th gate is the first gate in the Quarter of Duality. 

So we have this combination of these gates that are in the Self so that identity is the true stage. In other words, in terms of the Nodal configuration, whether you’re going from the 7 to the 13 or the 13 to 7, the background is about identity. In other words, the environment is an environment that is full of strong identities and the encouragement of the establishment of identity. As an environment, it means that the fulfillment of purpose is going to be deeply connected to this concept of self and the opening of self.

South Node 13 to the North Node 7
Obviously, there are different ways in which the scenario is going to move. If you’re moving from the South Node 13 to the North Node 7, then you’re moving from the realm of mind and you’re going to move through a whole process of learning and listening and developing and you’re going to be in an environment where ideas and values are all part of the background— the ideas and values that are established by strong identities and that identity itself becomes the formula.

So, the movement is going to be through the development of ideas and values and through that movement finding the right other, in that sense, because everything about duality is about the genetic imperative within humanity, the imperative to bond with the other, the imperative that through that bond that the potential of continuity and continuation in the process is created.

So, when you’re looking at the 13 and the 7 and you’re looking at them as a backdrop upon which the life is going to operate, how important it is to see that these are beings that need to be in environments that are going to nurture them mentally. Not only environments that are going to nurture them mentally, but environments in which they have the possibility of enriching relationships with the other.

South Node 7 to the North Node 13
The other thing is that the whole process of the 7 to the 13 is that if you’re moving from the 7 to the 13, the 7 is a demand that there is leadership. So the framework of the life will begin with these forces that guide, these forces of leadership that are going to be there. And these forces that guide one into various bonds. Out of these bonds comes the stimulation of the ideas and the values.

Both the 7 and the 13 are role gates. It is important to understand that the Nodal environment isn’t simply a matter of the gates, but is very much a matter of the lines themselves. When you’re dealing with the Nodes as lower trigram, how important it is to understand that this is a very much self-absorbed process. So, for example, this combination of the listening self and the development of this listening self, if it’s a 1st line theme, then clearly this listening process is one that is of deep investigation. If it is a 2nd line theme one has to be called out to that and the environment will be an environment that does that. It will be an environment which in order to get the other that is important for you, in order to hear what you need to hear about the development of yourself, you’re going to have to knock on those doors and you’re going to have to call it out.

The 3rd line self that listens is one that it happens to it. Things bump into it. And obviously when you move to the transpersonal lines, to the 4, to the 5, to the 6, again each line helps identify the kind of environment that is going to be embodied by the hexagram thematic.