The Cross of Life and the Nodes - 3
The Nodes Set the Stage

The Nodes of the Moon are the background. They set the stage. Not only do they set the stage in the sense that they provide the scenery, but more than that, they provide the scenery and the forces that are going to populate that scenery. They provide the background characteristics. They provide the forces within the context of the environment you are going to meet in your process.
To really understand your Nodes is to recognize the world you are intended to deal with, the environment you are intended to deal with, the kind of people who are meant to be there in the background of your life, and the kind of forces that are there to provide you with exactly the right connections, the right interaction, the right education, and the right whatever because they belong in your scene.

Think about what it means that you have an opportunity to fulfill your purpose. But the potential to fulfill your purpose has to be seen against the background because it’s in that background, it’s in that environment, that your purpose has to be achieved. And the moment you’re looking at the Nodes, as you will see as we go through this adventure of looking at the 32 polarities in the wheel and looking at the 32 Nodal environments that emerge, is to begin to see that the potential for anyone to fulfill their purpose is directly related to the environment in which it is intended to be fulfilled. This is The Cross of Life. There is no way to fulfill the potential of one without fulfilling the potential of the other because they are deeply connected to each other.

In the very beginning when I began my process, there was this deep understanding of this Cross. The deep understanding that this was the skeleton of anyone‟s life. You could see the basic essence of what they were intended to live out as a purpose. You could see that purpose in their Incarnation Cross, you could see that purpose in their Profile, and you could see the potential of it in terms of its consistency, or not, in the way in which that Cross operated within the dynamics of the characteristics of the Bodygraph. But more than that, by understanding the Nodes, by understanding this scene that is being set, the stage upon which this purpose can be fulfilled, you could immediately hone in directly to the essence of what this life was intended to be about, and who was supposed to be there in this life.

For me, it is ironic that after all of these years of teaching that I am at the beginning of a new 18 year cycle in the process of being a messenger for this knowledge. At the beginning of this new cycle, I return to the most fundamental teaching that I brought at the very beginning of my career. It’s not, in any sense, a going backwards. I can see so clearly how this is the beginning in a spiral. It’s a new beginning because today with the depth we have in the knowledge of Human Design, with the deeper understanding that exists in the mechanics and the ability through synthesis to be able to explain to others their basic strategy, the secret and the accessibility of their inner authority, that now to return to this very basic concept is to come to the simple core of understanding our lives and our purpose. 
posted on August 23

The Cross of Life and the Nodes - 2
The Nodes and the Eastern Tradition
Where the Sun/Earth binary is directly connected to our Western tradition, the South Node/North Node binary is directly connected to Eastern tradition. Again, we have this classic example in this Cross of Life of the intersection of these two themes together.

In the Eastern tradition, the South Node and the North Node have had a number of names: The head of the dragon (North Node), the tail of the dragon (South Node). But also, interestingly enough is, at least in terms of my own name, the Rahu as the North Node and the Ketu as the South Node. More than that, Ketu is dead and Rahu is alive—from death through life to death through life. In other words, it is a continuity or a movement of the incarnative process and not the incarnative process, but the incarnated process; in other words, the life process.

Characteristics
In this life process, in terms of the way in which we operate in analysis, we‟re looking at a number of things in Design. Basically, the life is lost in what we call "characteristics.‟ The goal in life is to transcend characteristics and to find one‟s true role. Now, characteristics are the domain of the Bodygraph. In other words, when you look at your design, you‟re looking at your characteristics, that is, your differentiated characteristics.

The whole challenge for you in your process, the only way in which you can leave or transcend the Bodygraph and approach your purpose correctly, is you have to deal with the characteristics. The whole theme of, and the teaching of, Human Design is that we teach strategy and authority in order for a being to come to grips with the power of characteristics in their life, and to ultimately be able to transcend them by operating correctly as themselves.

The reward for transcending your characteristics is that you find your role. One of my favorite analogies or metaphors is that I like to use the concept of the movie. If you're looking at characteristics, what you're really seeing are those beings who are in the frame of any scene, but have no part. In other words, they are simply characteristics. They may be loud or slow, they may be this or that, they may be characteristics but they don't actually have a role. These are the kind of people who never say anything in a scene; they‟re simply in the background.

But the moment you have, within the context of this metaphor of the movie, somebody who is more than characteristics, in other words they are given a role; it's only when you have a role that purpose is possible. When you look at any frame of any film, when you look at the background characters, you cannot imagine what their purpose is. You can't imagine their purpose because all you're getting is characteristics; you‟re not getting their role. And it is only through role that purpose can be achieved.

Purpose and Role
Within the context of Design your purpose is found through the Sun/Earth binary. There lies your Profile. And of course, in this Profile lies the potential for you to be able to fulfill that purpose because this gives you your true role in life. This gives you the archetype, or the generic, of what your role is and then you, as a unique differentiated being operating correctly, can fulfill that role.

But the Nodes have a special function. The function of the Nodes lays the dynamic for how you're going to move from characteristic to role because they set the stage. And in setting the stage, literally, they provide the background, the environment in which you emerge from your characteristics into your role.

The Cross of Life—to fulfill your purpose; but, the fulfillment of your purpose is done on a specific stage through specific continuity of scenes. It is this setting of the stage that the Nodes bring.
posted on August 15

The Cross of Life and the Nodes
The Cross of Life 

In 1992, when I first began to teach Human Design professionally, long before there were all the various synthetic tools that have been developed over the years in order to make analysis something that is easier for anyone to be able to do and to be able to grasp, I began with the simplest construct I had that I had been given in my experience. That construct had a name. It was something that I taught anyone who wanted to go beyond having a reading. It was called The Cross of Life. And this is not to be confused with Incarnation Cross. It was just a term. And it was a term that was something that was directly connected to the way in which I was instructed to see the way in which life itself operates, and to begin to understand the deep, deep nature of what it is to be in a dualistic environment, to be in a binary vehicle, to be in a life that is dominated by the maia‟s binary construct of “this” and “that.” 

The Vertical: The Sun/Earth 

There are several things that are interesting. The first thing I‟d like you to think about is that this cross is based on a kind of vertical and a kind of horizontal. The vertical of this cross is the Sun/Earth binary, the Sun/Earth polarity. If you look at all the calculations in the rave chart you will see that there are only two calculations that are automatically repeated and are opposites of each other. In other words, the Sun/Earth is always exactly opposite each other in the wheel, and the North Node and the South Node are exactly opposite each other in the wheel They have a very, very unique relationship with each other. As a matter of fact, the way in which the Nodes are calculated, they represent extremes on the elliptic of the Moon in its relationship to the orbit of the Earth around the Sun. It is the intersecting of these two lines of geometry that lead to the North Node and the South Node existing as points that we can calculate. There is this profound relationship between these two binaries. And within the context of my metaphor, the Sun/Earth represents the vertical binary, the vertical arm of this Cross of Life. 

Now, what makes the Sun/Earth so significant is that it represents 70% of our programming. That is, 70% of the density of the neutrino ocean that we live in is generated millisecond-by millisecond as a by-product of the life and the fusion that takes place within the Sun. So 70% of our programming, 70% of what we are, the very nature of what we call “purpose,” is rooted directly in this programming of the Sun to its mirror, to its opposition, the Earth. 

The Horizontal: The Nodes
 
Now, intersecting that line of geometry, intersecting that vertical consciousness stream is the horizontal movement, this horizontal elliptic of the Nodes— the South Node and the North Node. Now, there is something very specific. First of all, these are real binaries in the sense that they are very different from each other. That is, the Sun and the Earth are physical objects that are exactly opposite each other. And the South Node and the North Node are non-physically objects; these are positions that are exactly opposite each other.
 
The Sun and the Earth move counterclockwise through the wheel. And in moving counterclockwise through the wheel, they represent the existential imprinting of life moment-by-moment in the now, this imprinting. The Nodes, as a position opposition, move clockwise in the wheel. It is only the Nodes that are directly connected to the precession of the equinox and are connected to the larger cycles themselves.

More on the Nodes in the next Newsletter... 
posted on August 9

Your Costume Grows On You
The whole thing about the costume you wear in life is that it grows on you. As those cells are changing in your body as you decondition, your costume is changing. It‘s becoming more refined. It‘s not that it‘s not there. It‘s not like a 1/3 isn‘t a 1/3 from the moment they‘re born. But to be a correct 1/3 and to be correct throughout their process, then they will not have any difficulty whatsoever understanding why they‘re here, what their incarnation really is all about, what this role is that they‘re here to play in this life.

There is also confusion about it. The only reason I call this an Incarnation Reading is that it is literally about being dropped into the meat. It really is that—the in-carne. That‘s truly what your Incarnation Cross is. What meat did you get thrown into? Is it a kind of plump, poultry chicken? Is it an Armani suit that you‘ll ultimately wear?

Or do you end up mastering the wearing of rags? It‘s not about material in that. But it really is that; but it‘s not about whether or not you‘re going to enjoy wearing those clothes. It‘s not about whether life is going to be correct for you or that it‘s going to be a place of peace for you, blah, blah, blah, all of those things; it doesn‘t mean any of that. And that has always been my concern.

Somebody hears their Incarnation Cross and they think, ―Aha, this is me. This is why I am here. Well, wait a second now. That‘s not quite true. You come in on an incarnation and you live incorrectly, this is—when there is a scoreboard out there at the department of planning they‘re saying, ―Excuse me, no, no, no they did not play that part well at all. And remember that we, as crystals of consciousness, and those of us that bear personality crystals of consciousness, we are in the full-time job of incarnating. Keep on trying to see what it‘s like to just wear one piece of clothing properly, to finally go out the door well dressed. 

An Incarnation Reading is a Signpost

My concern goes back to the same thing always. I really want you to understand deeply that this is a signpost. This is that beautiful thing that‘s in the shop window and they can earn their way to wearing that costume, truly. They can get to that point. But they cannot expect that they can just open up that window and grab that costume and that‘s what they‘re wearing, because it‘s not true. It‘s just not true. They have to see that‘s something they have to get to.

Now, we‘re not going to be like that with children who are brought into the world who are educated in Human Design. They‘re going to grow up in the right costume and they‘ll simply perfect it. But when we‘re dealing with a deconditioning process, this is such a heavy ordeal to get people out of their trip. How many people I know who after years and years and years and years still can‘t live their design? Many. You really have to see, this is the key. You have to live out your Strategy. There is nothing else. And then yes, yes, yes, yes, the gods are cruel but they also reward. If you‘re correct, you go through your deconditioning process, you live out what is correct for you, and you‘ll get to the costume in the window sooner or later. And you‘ll get to enjoy that experience.

We are All Fractals of Every Mythological Force

It‘s like my conversations with people, students of mine now who are beyond seven years. One of my main conversations with them—I‘m in my third cycle—is how incredible it is to start your life, not that you‘re continuing some process, but you finish the deconditioning. It‘s about seeing you‘re a baby after seven years. And in being that baby and starting on that road of correctness doesn‘t mean you can fit into those huge mythological costumes, and we all have them. 

Please understand that. It‘s not a vanity. It‘s an inherent truth. We all have them. They‘re all there for us. We are all fractals of the gods. We are all fractals of every incredible mythological force you can imagine. Each and every one of us, in the perfection of our costume, embodies that. That‘s why we‘re moving to a mutative time of the 6th line, not the 5th line. We‘re moving to a time in which you don‘t wait for one child of god. Everybody‘s the child of god. Everybody has on their mythological costume. Everybody is sitting on Olympus bitching at each other, all in the right costumes, with correct bitching, please. Correct bitching is allowed.
