The 37th and the 40th Nodes
Gates 37/40: One of the Three Oppositions in the Wheel

There are three oppositions in the wheel that form definitions in the Bodygraph. The 37/40 is one of these oppositions. This particular polarity, because it forms the definition in the Bodygraph, the synthesis is already there in the sense of the quantum representation of this polarity, is the Channel of Community. Something very easy to grasp when you’re looking at these three variations is that their true nature as an environment is already being expressed. The only difference is that under the general generic there are going to be two different ways in which the scene of life is going to unfold.

Gate 37: The Channel of Community
When we’re dealing with the channel 40/37, we’re dealing with the Channel of Community. This is a design of being a part seeking a whole. So this is really the theme of the background. In other words, this is going to take place in an environment where the parts are always seeking to be part of the whole. That is simply going to be the scene setting.

However, the way in which the process is going to operate will depend whether it begins with the South Node 37 or a South Node 40. We are dealing with Tribal Circuitry and we’re dealing with a theme of need. The theme of need in the Tribe operates through three gates: the 19, 49 and the 37. But it does not operate through the 40. The 40 is a gate of denial; one of the two gates of denial, both of which are tribal. That is, the 40 and the 26.

Need and Denial
So what you’re dealing with in terms of the 40 and the 37, on one side you’re dealing with a need, an emotional expression of need. On the other side you’re dealing with an ego expression of denial. So the way in which the scene is going to operate is in the background of the community and in the background of the social bargain. In the background of the marriage contract there is going to be these two sides. Either one is going to begin from a position of denial and move towards a position of need, or one is going to move from the need to the denial.

But the reality is that it’s all going to take place in the background of the community. If purpose is going to be fulfilled for this being, then that purpose is going to be fulfilled within that community concept because that is where the lessons have to be learned. That is where the potential of the profile is going to have its opportunity to be fulfilled.

South Node in the 37th Gate
When you’re looking at the combinations in this polarity, keep in mind that you’re dealing with two very, very different kinds of motors of energy sources. If you begin your process as a 37 South Node, you’re dealing with a dense emotional environment. In the emotional environment, all the needs are things that rise and crash. That is, they rise and fall. There is always going to be this emotional dilemma and this emotional clouding as long as beings are operating existentially. 

The reality is that when you’re starting from the 37, you have to see that there is no clarity in the first half of your life, and it’s very difficult to find the clarity. So you end up needing to be clear and living in an environment where clarity is missing. Obviously, if you’re operating correctly as yourself, and if you’re operating correctly within that environment, rather than being a victim of the emotional confusion of the backdrop in your life, you can take advantage of that, grow wise in its nature.

South Node in the 40th Gate
The same thing is true when you’re looking at the ego configuration of the 40. After all, the ego is a motor and the motor is will. Of course, one of the things to be very clear about is that if you begin your life with the South Node in the 40, that putting your shoulder to the wheel or not, whether you’re going to use your energy or not, that’s really going to be the theme. Of course, the background for you is going to be all of this willfulness as a thematic that you’re intended to see, and a willfulness that can be full of denial. 

This polarity, like anything, automatically brings emotional authority into the bearer’s design. Of course, it is this emotional authority that will speak to the correctness of whether or not this being can fulfill its purpose on this Nodal theme. And all of it will have to do with how they deal with their emotional system.
