The 62nd and 61st Nodes
The 62nd Gate: Detail

When we’re dealing with 62nd gate we’re dealing with the gate of The Preponderance of the Small, and this is the gate of detail. The 62nd gate is an extraordinary gate because it is a metamorphic gate. That is, it has the capacity to translate our inner vision of patterns and formulas and to be able to give it the necessary language and description to ultimately allow other people to understand. So the 62nd gate is very much a verbal gate of the expression of detail. 

When you’re looking at it as a Nodal configuration, one of the things that is so obvious about the 62 environment is the chatter that is out there. In other words, there is all of this detailing of information. Again, if you’re carrying the 62nd Node, then you’re somebody who is sensitive to this in your environment. In other words, when you think about the environment as being the background people in your life and the background people who are around the background people in your life, when you look at that environment that you’re moving through you’re going to be sensitive to those that are operating out of the understanding level. This is what you’re going to be attuned to, and you’re going to be attuned to the dilemmas of limitation because this is an environment that is limited. This is an environment where caution, patience and detail are necessary attributes. 

Whenever you see this, recognize that Human Design is a dualistic system. When you see a Nodal environment that says there’s caution, then you know there’s going to be lack of caution. When you see that patience is necessary, there’s also going to be the lack of patience. When you see the detail is part of it, you’re going to see that there is a lack of detail. In other words, all of the spectrum of what this 62nd environment can bring, that’s what’s going to be around. Of course, all of it is about trying to find a way to achieve excellence out of limitation. 

The 61st Gate: Principles

On the other side, you have the 61st gate. The 61st gate is in the Head Center so this is a pressure center. This is the gate of Inner Truth and it is a gate of mystery, mystery only in the sense that this is not a collective process. It is an individual process and it’s very much something in which the pressure of concepts or the pressure to conceptualize is something that suddenly emerges. The gate itself is: The awareness of universal underlying principles.

As a Nodal environment, this is an environment in which there are principles and lack of principles that are there. Of course, you as the being carrying this as a Node are deeply sensitive to the fact that there are principles out there. It’s so interesting to understand that to see your environment correctly, to have the right environment around you is the foundation for your fulfillment of purpose. This is the way the mechanism operates. 

Clearly, when you’re dealing with the 62/61, you’re dealing with an environment in which excellence and principles are the things that are being most sought out. At least that’s what you’re sensitive to. It doesn’t mean somebody standing beside you who is going to have a different Nodal configuration is going to see the world around them in the same way. 

It’s one of the things that is so fascinating about us. Most of us have a homogenized view of the world. Think about that. In other words, the world is presented to us in a certain way in which all of us take this in as a conditioning field. You get that, for example, from the major news outlets, the way information is moved around, and the lifestyle commentaries on the way people live and what is important for them and the things that are established culturally by governments and by religions.

But here you can really see that each and every one of us has a very unique perspective on the world. It’s only when we’re all operating through unique perspectives together that there is ultimately the potential to truly see the world for what it is. But the only way that can be achieved is when each and every one of us can fulfill our purpose and have a unique perspective that is the guideline for the fulfillment of that purpose.

So standing there with your 61/62 beside somebody who has a different Nodal configuration and you look out at the environment around you and say, “there is this deep need that I can feel out there, people want underlying principles, they want to find the excellence in life,” that the person standing beside you doesn’t necessarily see that at all. And yet, what they see is their differentiated truth, their differentiated perspective. It’s not about one or the other being right. And of course, what we end up with is an understanding that there is a vast spectrum of perspectives of what life is really all about.
