The 30th and the 29th Nodes
The 30th Gate: Clinging Fire 

The 30th gate, The Clinging Fire, is in the emotional system. This is the gate of the fates, freedom recognized as an illusion and limitation accepted as a fate. So one of the things to understand about this as a stage that’s being set for a process, if this is the South Node phase, then one is going to have in one’s background the ability to be able to see and recognize the illusion of freedom, and perhaps, be able to see that limitation accepted is something that is an act of transcendence. But literally, in terms of a background environment, one is going to see all kinds of forces in one’s life hit a brick wall.
 
And whether it’s your family hitting a brick wall materially, or whether it’s a health issue, or whatever the case may be, in the background of your movie with that 30th gate being there, the hand of the fates are going to be there in the environment. It also means that because this is the environment that is going to surround you, and because the characters in the environment are going to be dealing with the consequences of this field, the way in which you’re going to fulfill your own purpose is going to be through the acceptance of this environment. In other words, you are going to have to fulfill your purpose through the recognition that freedom is an illusion, and that limitation is something that can only be surrendered to.
 
The 29th Gate: The Abysmal 

On the other side, you have the 29th gate and this is The Abysmal. It’s the deep within the deep; persistence despite difficulties has its inevitable rewards. This is all about saying yes, it’s all about making commitments. But this is about persistence. As a background frequency the stage is being set, there is an environment where persistence is everywhere, where there is always going to be those that are going to demonstrate the benefits of keeping your shoulder to the wheel because ultimately there are rewards.
 
The South Node in the 29th Gate 

When you’re looking at this movement as scenery in the background of somebody’s life, obviously the 29 to the 30 is very different from the 30 to 29. But the thing to recognize clearly about this is that if you’re beginning with the 29, then one of the things to see is that with that first period, the rewards are not there in that phase. That is, in the first half of the life it is the persistence that is going to be the teaching instrument of the environment around you. And that it is only through persistence that ultimately you can get to the reward of the recognition that’s on the other side, that it’s in the hands of the fates. And regardless of how persistent you are going to be, the rewards are always going to be limited to the hand of the fates.
 
The South Node in the 30th Gate
 
But if you start with the 30th gate, if you begin this process of dealing with limitation, remember that one can only accept limitation when one has accepted oneself. For the not-self to begin with the 30th gate as a South Node can often be exceedingly difficult, particularly if one is a 3rd line. One is going to meet the difficulties of life. One is going to constantly face up to the reality that there is no real freedom. That everything about life is a limitation and unless one is operating correctly, one is not going to be able to take advantage of that environment. Remember that the Nodes represent the stage upon which you can fulfill your purpose. But the purpose inherent in the Profile only resonates to your environment when you’re operating correctly. Otherwise, it doesn’t. 

And of course, the very environment itself can become a negative in one’s life, an environment where one simply throws up one’s hands in the air because there is no freedom, throws one’s hands up in the air because there is only limitation. And of course, out of that does not come the necessary transcendence. Yet, somebody who has this as a South Node theme when they move into their North Node phase, in the end the only solution is to put your shoulder to the wheel; this is what is all around you. That those, despite the illusions, simply maintain what their life force is committed to, what it is to simply be. But the secret always is to honor your authority, to follow your strategy. And in operating correctly, you will take advantage of that environment and your purpose can be fulfilled. 
