The 39th and 38th Nodes
The 39th Gate: Provocation

When we’re dealing with the 39th gate, we’re dealing with a gate of Obstruction and this is the gate of the provocateur. When we’re looking at this as the Nodal environment, we know that we’re going to have a stage that is full of characters that are ready to provoke. More than that, the understanding that to have these Nodes, and to have the 39th gate as a Node is also to give you the perspective of seeing the provocation in life, seeing those that provoke. 

Of course, the value of this provocation is in provoking analysis, assessment and reevaluation. So really what that brings out is an environment where there is a need, a basic need for analysis, assessment, and reevaluation. Remember that here in dealing with the 39th gate and the 38th gate as a polarity, we are dealing with Root gates. We are dealing with a great deal of pressure and an environment that is going to be full of pressure.

If you have these Nodes, it’s very important for you to understand that you’re very sensitive to the pressure in the environment around you. Yet, in fact, that pressure is correct as a stage for you. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you, yourself, need to succumb to that pressure. Nor do you need to be a victim of the pressure. But simply to recognize that you’re sensitive to the pressure and that very sensitivity allows you to operate correctly as yourself.

The 38th Gate: The Fighter

On the other side we have the 38th gate, the gate of Opposition, the gate of the fighter. This is: The ability to preserve individual integrity through opposition to detrimental forces. Again, this is going to bring out a sensitivity to those detrimental forces that are there in the environment, a sensitivity to the environment in which there are forces that are being dealt with. In other words, where there is opposition, where there are those that are fighting against negative forces and a sensitivity within the person who has this Nodal configuration to that environment.

It’s also essential to realize that the 38th gate and the 39th gate are not only pressure gates in the Root System, but these are individual gates. They are individual gates that carry with them the individual chemistry of moodiness and melancholy as a potential. There is also the potential for creativity. So, here is a Nodal environment that is going to be full of that kind of moodiness, but also an environment that has the potential for the creative. 

So, it’s essential to really know something about your Nodal configuration. Your Nodal configuration sets the stage for you. Not only does it set the stage, but it allows you the perspective to be sensitive to the dynamics of your particular stage. Through that, in operating correctly as yourself therein lies the potential for you to discover truly what your purpose is. This is the way in which you can live out your Profile.

The 38 and the 39 as a Nodal opposition are going to bring elements of this moodiness, elements of struggle into one’s life. They’re going to be around. This threat to personal integrity, the need to defend oneself is something that is simply going to be there in the background, that to provoke others and to be provoked in order to bring out real assessment and evaluation, that’s going to be part of the environment.

But it doesn’t mean that it is you. And it doesn’t mean that you need to fall into what is the dynamic of the 38/39. That dynamic, if it was operating through your Profile would be very clear because it would represent a very deep personality trait as well as a design, an unconscious trait. But here what we’re talking about is an environment. This is THE environment, this environment of provocation, this environment of the fighter. And it is the environment that is perfect for you, if you’re carrying these Nodes. It’s just the right place for you to be. It’s exactly the right configuration. 

If you see these things in the environment around you and if you’re 38/39 Nodally, then you know that everything is the way it’s supposed to be. The point is it is that environment. If you’re operating correctly, that opens the doorway to your purpose. And that’s really what it’s all about. But remember, because you have a Nodal configuration it means you only do see in a certain way. And be clear that if you’re operating correctly, it is that seeing your sensitivity to the particular environment ultimately is the force that enriches your life. 
