The 22nd and the 47th Nodes
The 22nd Gate: The Mundane and Trivial

The 22nd gate is the gate of Grace. It says: A quality of behavior best suited in handling mundane and trivial situations. This is an emotional gate. It’s an emotional individual gate that has a deep sensitivity to the acoustic field. One of the things about having this as a stage stetting in one’s life is that this is very much a very alive environment. In other words, it is the mundane and the trivial and everything that comes with the mundane and trivial. 

It is about having the behavior that operates correctly within that mundane framework. In other words, this is very much a polarity that puts one very deeply into the world and into the world in order to have the potential to mutate in that world. But also recognize the essence of this grace; in other words, to know how to be a part of the deep mundane plane.

The 47th Gate: Constraints
On the other side we have a mental gate. We have the 47th gate coming out of the Ajna Center, a conceptualizing gate, the gate of Oppression. It says: A restrictive and adverse state as a result of internal weakness or external strength or both. In dealing with this polarity not only are you dealing with the mundane plane, but you’re dealing with an environment in which there are tremendous constraints within the environment itself. In other words, the stage itself is filled with external forces that are restrictive, that will get in one’s way.

Remember that when you’re seeing this within the Nodal framework, what you’re talking about is the background environment that is necessary for you to be able to fulfill your purpose. It isn’t in and of itself a negative nor is it necessarily something that is describing you other than if you are deeply open to conditioning that you become very much like the background of your environment. In other words, you end up feeling restricted. You end up feeling internally weak because you are overwhelmed by the strength of the forces around you.

Yet, in order for you to fulfill your purpose, you need to have an environment; you need to have a background where you deal with all of these forces, to deal with all of these forces and yet at the same time to be able to deal with them with grace. You can see the coupling of this polarity, this mirror to each other how fascinating their connection truly is.

South Node in the 47th Gate
Now, if you’re starting with the 47, a South Node 47 moving towards a North Node 22, then the dilemma may be being overwhelmed by the power of the environment around you. Again, depending on your ability to operate correctly or not, you’re going to be able to find your way, to make your way in that environment, to make sense out of it. And in making sense out of it, being able to fulfill whatever your purpose has to be relative to that environment.

If it’s moving to the 22, obviously as you move towards the midlife point you begin to develop that quality of behavior that can handle those mundane and trivial situations. In other words, you go through this process and ultimately there is this potential for the perfection of one’s ability to be able to deal with that environment. More than that, ultimately the emotional root to be able to mutate others within the context of that environment.

South Node in the 22nd Gate
Whether you’re moving from the 22 to 47 or not, you begin with this behavioral process in an environment that is mundane and trivial. Let’s say you have the 22 as the South Node and you come into this life and you’re conditioned to see the trivial and mundane as inferior, unimportant and insignificant in your life. One of the things to recognize about being able to operate correctly as oneself is that not only are we here to accept the stage upon which our life is intended to unfold, not just simply accept it, but exalt in it.
It’s not simply a matter of saying “Oh, jeez, here’s my life and it’s full of this mundane and trivial blah, blah, blah.” It isn’t about that. It’s about recognizing that it’s only out of that platform that the possibility for you to fulfill your purpose even exists. 
