The 24th and 44th Nodes
The 24th Gate: Transformation and Renewal

This is actually a fascinating stage within the Nodal context.  When you’re dealing with the 24th gate, the Return, you’re dealing with a gate in the Ajna Center.  It’s a conceptualizing gate and it is going to have a lot to do with an environment of intellectuality.  It is the natural and spontaneous process of transformation and renewal.  Again, this is not as one would see it through a Profile, in the sense that this is something for the being itself, that they’re going to go through spontaneous transformation and renewal.  It means that the environment is full of spontaneous transformation and renewal.  And it is within the context of this environment of this transformation and renewal that the very purpose of one’s life can be fulfilled.

The thing to understand about the Nodes is that they do provide a signpost.  When you look all around you with the 24 Nodes and you see these spontaneous moments of transformation and renewal, you know you’re in the right environment.  And of course, this is essential to grasp.  It’s not about saying, “Ooh, this frightens me. I don’t know when it’s going to happen.”  This is very individual.  This is something that’s there and it’s not, and then suddenly it’s there.  If you’re operating out of the not-self and you’re not operating out of your own Authority, this can all appear to be very disturbing.  It can lead to a deep sense of melancholy if there is no transformation and renewal, if one does not experience transformation and renewal. 

So the key to understanding the Nodal environment is recognizing that this is where you belong.  It’s where you should be.  It’s what’s supposed to be there all around you in your life.  And if you see it all around you in your life and you’re operating correctly as yourself, then you’re on the right stage to reach the fulfillment of your purpose.

The 44th Gate: Surrender

On the other side we have the 44th gate, and the 44th gate is a gate of alertness.  It’s in the Splenic System.  Again, whenever we’re dealing with a Node that’s in the Spleen, we’re dealing with a Node that brings an environment of fear.  This is a gate of alertness.  So there is this fear and tension in the alertness that’s going to exist in the environment.  But it’s:  The success of any interaction is based on the absence of any preconditions.  

Now think about that because it’s very, very significant.  If you know circuitry in Human Design and you look at the tribe, you will see that the parallel to the 26/44 is the 40/37.  The 40th gate is out of the ego, like the 26th gate, going down to the emotional system rather than to the Spleen, to the 37.  The 40/37, the Channel of Community is all about the bargain.  But look on this side, to the 44 and you can see that the bargain isn’t what it’s all about.  It’s not about a deal.  It isn’t.  It is about the fulfillment of ambition.  And there  are to be no preconditions.  

So here is an environment in which deals will not work.  If you’re in this environment and you’re carrying the 44th gate and you’re busily involving yourself in arrangements in which you have to make a bargain in order to hope to get where you want to get to, you’re in absolutely the wrong place, because the right environment for you is an environment without preconditions.  You can begin to see how conditioning can move you away from the natural environment you’re intended to be in.  

One of the things to recognize about the nature of conditioning is how easy it is for conditioning.  Remember that the Nodes themselves are only positions.  They are not objects.  How easy it is for the Nodes to be confused, how easy it is for imprinting to influence the not-self and move it away from being able to be in the right environment and not see that the lack of preconditions is correct, instead of being conditioned to think that you have to have preconditions in order for anything to be a success.  

So here we have a very interesting stage, this polarity between the 24 and the 44.  At the deepest area of this is the ability to be able to see the positive of this environment.  Transformation, renewal and success, they’re all there, but you have to be able to accept, surrender to, which is one of the inherent themes of the 44 in its movement towards the 26, you have to surrender to your environment.  And you cannot do that with the mind.  You can only do that mechanically through correctness, through honoring your Strategy, following your inner Authority.
