The 36th and the 6th Nodes
The 36th Gate: Crisis and Inexperience
This is, at its very best, a difficult environment in which to find one’s purpose.  When I say it’s a difficult environment to find one’s purpose that isn’t to say that truly it’s any different than any other environment.  However, from the outside looking in at it, it appears to be an uncomfortable environment in which to develop.

The 36th gate is a gate of conflict.  The 36th gate, the Darkening of the Light, is a gate of crisis and inexperience.  Yet, clearly this is an environment, like all nodal environments that is the precise environment necessary for the fulfillment of whatever the purpose happens to be in its Cross and Profile structure.

The 6th Gate: Friction
With the 6 we’re dealing with: The fundamental design component of progress; the law that growth cannot exist without friction.  The 6th gate is part of the channel of intimacy.  That is, its harmonic gate, the 59th gate is the genetic imperative for bonding.  This is a channel that is about the potential fertility and reproductive capacity of humanity.  The 6th gate is very much related to whether or not we are not open or not, opened or closed to intimacy.  It is the 6th gate and its emotional context.  Here we’re dealing with an emotional environment.  I think this is one of the things that make this polarity difficult as a stage upon which the life is set, one in which there is no release from emotional tension and the emotional wave.

In dealing with the 6, one has to see that if this is your South Node phase then it’s very clear that what you’re going to see around you in the environment—and remember when I talk about this environment I’m talking about the people that populate the environment.  These beings that populate the environment are going to be caught up in friction.  One is going to have to develop and find one’s purpose in an environment where human beings are in conflict, the conflict in and of itself results in friction.  And yet, the very conflict can be productive.  In other words, out of that very conflict and friction can come the potential of new life, can come the potential of growth, and can come the potential of development.

But it does mean that when you’re meeting somebody who has this as a Nodal configuration, that it’s clear that the beings that are around them in their life one cannot expect to enter into a peaceful and prosaic environment because it’s not going to be there.  This is going to be an environment that is going to be full of tension.

An Environment Full of Trauma, Crisis and Sexuality
On the other side we have the 36th gate which is the gate of crisis: The rule of cycles in which decline is a natural but not an enduring stage. Of course, one gets to see that in the environment around them there are all these beings that get to see that the experience of life can be devastating, that there isn’t necessarily progress at the end of the line.  In other words, this combination of the 6 and the 36, these are beings that are going to have to find their purpose in an environment that is full of trauma, which is full of crisis.  And in an environment that is highly sexual in its content.  In other words, that sexuality is going to be very much a part of the background of this particular process.  

Regardless of whether you’re moving from the 36 to the 6 or the 6 to the 36, the thing to keep in mind about the Nodal environment is that it is not about whether the Nodal environment in and of itself is isolated, as we are isolating them here, is ‘this or that,’ whether it is a good environment or a difficult environment or a fascinating environment or as, in this case, an environment that is very much connected to the emotional turmoil of the difficulties of life, of the commonality of conflict and friction and the deep fears of experiential failure and the dilemmas and inadequacies of experience, the real key is simply to operate correctly as oneself.

If this is your nodal configuration and you’re operating correctly according to your Authority and your Strategy, then you will fulfill your purpose.  And this, as an environment, will not be one in which you measure against others, but will be the perfect environment for you to find your purpose.  
posted on October 25

