The 35th and 5th Nodes
The 35th Gate: Need for Interaction

When we’re dealing with the 35th gate we have the gate of Progress. And the gate of Progress is a key element of the human experiential way. It is, after all, the gate of change and is part of the channel of transitoriness. When we look at the 35th gate what we’re looking at is: By design, progress cannot exist in a vacuum and is dependent on interaction. Think about this within the Nodal context. Remember that the Nodes represent a stage upon which the life is lived out. That is, the individual life is lived out with the potential of fulfilling the purpose through that; that is, living out one’s Profile.

But what that means is that all around you is going to be this frequency, the frequency of the 35. And this is all about the need for interaction. Not simply a need, but a dependency on interaction. So you’re going to have an environment in which there is not enough interaction. As long as there’s not enough interaction, then you don’t ultimately get to progress. And it’s again one of the things to understand about the Nodal environment, that the expression of that Nodal environment through the gate, that what you’re looking at through that gate, is a potential that works both ways. 

In other words, yes there will be those who will progress because they have the necessary interaction, but the environment is going to be filled with many people that are looking for interaction or are dependent on interaction because without it they will not find their progress. Now of course, that doesn’t mean that if you’re carrying this Node, that’s you. What it means is that is a world in which you have the greatest potential to be able to fulfill what is your purpose in this life.

The 5th Gate: Waiting

Now when we go to the other side of the polarity to the 5th gate, we get to the gate of Waiting. But the 5th gate in the Sacral Center has an extraordinary importance in all of Design. When I say all of Design I don’t mean simply Human Design, but the Design of Forms. All forms carry the 5th gate or the potential of the 5th gate, that the 15/5, the channel of being in the flow is a universal force. So when we’re dealing with the 5th gate, we are dealing with the inherent pattern of things. When you’re looking at this gate, the structure is the fundamental attunement to natural rhythms—waiting as an active state of awareness.

Now of course, the fact is that if waiting is the active state of awareness, then not waiting is going to be what the general environment is going to look like. In other words, there is going to be a background environment through the 5/35 that can seem to be quite chaotic, an environment where no one is waiting, the classic example of a generating theme trying to manifest that nobody is waiting. On the other side of that. in the collective process of the 35, that there is not enough interaction, interaction that is absolutely necessary if progress is going to take place. 

So here you begin to see the world of that being that incarnates with this Nodal configuration is a world where people are not interacting, a world where people are not waiting, this is going to be the background of their life. And at the same time there is going to be the potential in the purpose to recognize that quality of life and also to be able to be of value to others once one has fulfilled one’s process of going beyond your characteristics, honoring your strategy and authority so that you do get to a point where you get to fulfill the purpose of your Profile.

Your environment is something that you’re dependent on. It is the perfect environment. So, if you come in with a 5/35 and all around you you see that people aren’t waiting and people aren’t interacting, you’re in the right place. Now of course, if you’re operating as not-self you can look at that right place and think, “Oh my God I don’t want to be here. This is all wrong. It shouldn’t be like this. Everybody should be aware, and progress should be a natural part of our life process,” and so forth and so on. But the fact is that if you are operating correctly, it’s not so much that you don’t see the potential in the environment, the potential that awareness can bring, the potential that proper interaction can bring, but you’re actually using that environment as a stepping board for the fulfillment of your own unique purpose, whatever that purpose may be.

So the Nodes are something very, very special in our lives. They really do frame the environment for our transformation as beings to an awakened state.
posted on February 27
