The 3rd and 50th Nodes
The 50th Gate: Traditional Values

Here you really have a very extraordinary kind of background, because you have a transition between what is ultimately deeply conservative, that’s the 50th gate, and what is fundamentally individual, freaky and mutative, and that’s the 3rd gate.  So, we have very different aspects of the way in which this stage is going to operate.  It’s particularly significant in the difference between whether one or the other gates is the South Node or the North Node.

Let’s take a look at the 50th gate, The Cauldron.  This is the gate of preservation.  It is deeply tribal.  It is the root of our intelligence system and the value of historical continuity whose traditional values serves and enriches the present and the future.  So, for example, when you are born with a South Node 50, then the stage upon which your life opens up on is a stage, in the environment, that is full of beings with traditional values and a community rooted in traditional values.  This kind of community, depending on where the community is and what the traditional values happen to be, is very much being caught into tribal continuity.  In other words, being caught up in a world in which the value systems refuse to accept the challenge of the outside, the challenge of whatever—modernity, secularism, whatever it happens to be, depending on the quality of those traditional values.

Remember, this is not as if this is the Personality and thus the Profile and what the life is going to be about.  This is about the environment upon which the potential of the purpose of the life can be fulfilled.  So it’s essential for this being that comes into the world with this configuration to go through this phase of their life, whether it’s the first or second half of their life, where they’re dealing with the power of it in the environment, the traditional tribal values.

The 3rd Gate: Confusion

Now obviously when we go to the other side, when we go to the polarity to the 3rd gate, we get to Difficulty at the Beginning.  We get to a Sacral gate that is part of the format energy of the individual process.  It’s a pulse.  There is both a deep uncertainty and a potential melancholy that is rooted in the 3rd gate, and this is the fundamental challenge of initiation to transcend confusion and establish order.  

This will lead to two very different kinds of life processes, whether you are going from the 3 to the 50 or the 50 to the 3.  If you start your process with the 50 South Node, you start with traditional values as your background, only to discover that the traditional values for whatever reason collapse, and in that collapse is the rising up of confusion, and out of that confusion, the need to establish a new order. In other words, there is the breakdown of whatever the continuity happens to be in the environment, and then the resulting confusion and the attempt to establish a new order.

If you’re coming the other way—that is, if you have a South Node 3rd gate, moving towards the 50th gate as your North Node, then you end up starting your process with confusion all around.  In other words, confusion in the environment, a lack of clarity, a lack of certainty, a great deal of discomfort in the environment, because in a world of confusion it is very difficult to operate in a successful way.  There you would have in the early part of the life this attempt to try to establish some order out of the confusion.  So that’s the environment.  Everybody’s trying to find a way, and this would lead into the 50, and this would be a return to traditional values.  In other words, that order, the ordering of the confusion would end up being a return, almost a retrograde phenomena of returning to traditional values as the thing that is going to secure one’s future. 

You can see that in the rise of fundamentalism in middle-aged beings on this planet.  If you’re carrying this kind of configuration, it is a natural thing to reject the confusion as an example of modern society to return to the secure traditional values that were established tribally.  

So this is a very interesting environment to work with.  Again, remember that the perfection of one’s process, the fulfillment of one’s purpose through one’s Profile, that given this Nodal environment, this is the environment in which that purpose can be fulfilled—not one to be rejected, not one to be denied, but one to be surrendered to correctly as oneself. 
