The 23rd and 43rd Nodes
The 23rd Gate: Splitting Apart

Here we’re dealing with the first of the oppositions that lead to a definition in the Bodygraph. The 43/23 is the Channel of Structuring, and it is a design of individuality from genius to freak. There is no way that you can differentiate Nodal oppositions that form definitions. This is a very, very fixed, set stage. It isn’t this movement of one to the other. It is, in fact, a continuum that is simply there. And it’s very important to recognize this. 

It also means that one enters into a life in which there is a very fixed stage in life, that the environment is one that is going to be deeply consistent. Now, if you’re not operating correctly that can be something that is very uncomfortable and something you try to escape from over and over again. And this is trying to escape ultimately from yourself.

Establishing a New Order

The 23rd gate is Splitting Apart, and it’s the amorality, the awareness and understanding which leads to the acceptance of diversity. When we look at the 43, in order for achievement to be maintained, a new order must be fairly established. So, a new order must be established that establishes what? That establishes the inherent right of diversity. This is the essence of the whole background frequency; this is a stage of the 43/23. This is a stage where uniqueness is intended to be enshrined. 

What you’re going to see is all the attempts of trying to establish a new order. This is the Channel of Structuring, so one who has this as a Nodal configuration ends up in a world in which structuring is the underlying theme, an underlying theme that at its mundane level is about nothing more than anything other than creating a higher level of efficiency in whatever activity humans are involved in. This is very much stepping into a constant struggle, a struggle that is there between conformity and diversity. The whole pull of this is to move away from conformity and to establish a new order that fairly accepts within the structure all of diversity. 

Now of course, this is not necessarily a stage that is welcomed in many places in civilization at any given time. The reality of the not-self and the openness of human beings to live by their not-self rather than their true self leads to societies and civilizations that are cemented by homogenization where everyone is forced to be very much the same in terms of the general themes of the way in which we live. That correctness is something that tends to be established by generalized moralistic forces, whether they are religious forces, religious institutions or governmental institutions. And here in this environment is an environment in which there is an ongoing attempt to reform the societies, reform the civilizations in order to enshrine the potential and the beauty of what diversity is.

No Difference Which Gate Is in the South Node

Whether or not you begin with a South Node 23 going to the 43 or the 43 going to the 23, it truly is not going to make significant difference in terms of what the environment is going to be like in one’s life. And recognize that an environment in which uniqueness is intended to be honored within the structure, how important it is to see that isn’t the Profile and it has nothing to do with the Profile. In fact, the being itself may not feel comfortable in such an environment, and yet that is the very environment for them to fulfill what is their purpose. If your purpose happens to be to be different in your own way, that you see that homogenization is the correct thing for you, and obviously, there are those that are going to be imprinted in such a way, that this is simply an environment that will act at that counterpoint for that potential of purpose.

It’s so important not to confuse the Nodal polarities with the Profile, and not to see them in that context. Remember, everything about operating correctly begins with your Strategy and your inner Authority.
posted on January 31
