The 45th and 26th Nodes
The 45th Gate: Materialism

This is a Nodal environment that is deeply tribal. That is, you’re dealing with two tribal gates: the 26th gate, The Taming Power of the Great out of the Heart Center, and the 45th gate, Gathering Together, out of the Throat Center, the voice, the expression of the tribe, the gate of the king, the queen, the pasha. When we’re dealing with the 45th gate as a Nodal environment, this is the naturally and generally beneficial attraction of like forces. 

One of the most interesting things about this environment is how possessive this environment is. The 45th gate is the voice that says, “I have,” or “I don’t have.” This is a Nodal environment where that is the voice of the people. The voice of the people are the ones who are shouting, “I have,” but most of the people are shouting, “I don’t have.” It’s: The natural and generally beneficial attraction of like forces. Well, yes it’s beneficial, but it doesn’t mean that that is what the environment is, that the environment in fact is an environment working on the possibility that the attraction of like forces can be generally and mutually and naturally beneficial. 

So, when you’re dealing with the 45 as a Nodal environment, this is the gate of the gatherer. This is all about the money line. It’s all about materialism. So you have a very, very material environment. And in that material environment there are the haves and the have-nots. One of the things to recognize is that it’s always the have-nots that are always seeking the natural and generally beneficial union that ultimately can transform their material place. But again, if you have the 45 as a Node, then you have to see that you’re going to be dealing with a material environment. The materialism is going to be a theme that is there and particularly the whole question of who possesses what, and the tensions in terms of that environment over the basic materials necessary in life.

The 26th Gate: Aggressiveness

The other side of the polarity is the 26th gate, The Taming Power of the Great, the gate of the egoist. This is: The maximization of the power of memory applied to the nurturing of continuity. Now, one of the things about this maximization of the power of memory is that it is an environment where there is a great deal of potential aggressiveness, and potential aggressiveness in the sense of trying to shape the way in which the community operates. 

The way in which a community is shaped can be shaped in a number of ways. For example, the 26th gate can bring a great deal of propaganda, salesmanship, that kind of influencing transmission to impact the way in which the community thinks about itself, or thinks about the things that it needs. And remember, in this polarity we have materialism as one of the deepest themes. 

The other thing is to be very clear about the 26th gate and its role as a defender in the immune system. That is, the 26th gate is related to the thymus gland that designs our immune system in the first years of our lives, and it is also the T cell. The T cells are literally the soldiers of the immune system that go out and protect us against those invading bacteria and viruses and so forth. 

It’s very important to see that an environment that has the 26th gate also has an environment that has the potential of violence, the potential of physical coercion. And here is the potential of coming into a Nodal environment that can be very aggressive, that can be filled with a great deal of lack of value. Remember that the ego, the Heart Center, the majority of humanity has this center open. It means that the majority of humanity suffers from the not-self strategy of the open Heart Center which is not seeing themselves as being worthy. They always have to prove themselves, not having in their lives consistent will power. So those themes are themes that you can apply to the environment.

Remember that it’s so important to realize the difference between Profile and Nodes. Not just Profile and Nodes, but to recognize that the Nodes are different from any other activations in the chart. All the activations in the chart, with the exception of the Nodes, come from physical objects that are physically interfering with the neutrino stream and changing the information. The thing to recognize about the Nodes is that they are positional. So when you’re looking at your Nodal environment, you’re not looking at a physical imprint of you. You’re looking at your connection to a larger imprint, the imprint of an environment. 

It’s not even that, it’s not to say that in your environment there is exclusively only the 26/45. What it’s saying is, that’s what you’re going to be attuned to in the environment around you. You are going to be attuned to the ones who have or have not. You’re going to be attuned to the ones who try to coerce or change the way in which the community sees itself. But who you are and the potential of who you are is fulfilled within that environment.
