The 63rd and the 64th Nodes
South Node in the 64th Gate 

This is quite an unusual opposition. It’s an unusual opposition in the way in which it operates within the Bodygraph because here in the 63 and in the 64, you are dealing with the collective pressure of the mind; that is, the collective pressure of the Head Center. The 63, After Completion, is the pressure for the logical mental process and the 64, Before Completion—and of course, the irony of these names—the 64, Before Completion, is the pressure for the abstract process.


Obviously, any kind of Nodal activation of this polarity is going to indicate a very, very powerful mental background for the life story. The stage is an intellectual stage. And it is a stage that is going to be steeped in thought. Yet, at the same time to see very clearly that it is a transition in life. It’s a very deep transition in life. And it is very different depending on which way you go; in other words, whether you’re going from the logical doubt to the abstract confusion or from the abstract confusion to the logical doubt. 

In other words, this is an intellectual process. And the thing to see is that the Nodes always represent not simply the thematic of the stage that is set, but they also represent the characteristics, or the characters that are going to fill the background of that stage. For example, if you have a 64 South Node, this is not simply that there is this intellectual process of trying to make sense out of experience and the past, but also to recognize that the characters that are going to populate the background are going to suffer from confusion. And it’s the very confusion of the environment that is going to nurture this pressure to resolve what the confusion comes from.

South Node in the 63rd Gate
After all, depending on the nature of one’s Profile and one’s Cross, in terms of what is the role of purpose in life, that that role of purpose has to be accomplished in an environment where there’s going to be a great deal of confusion or an environment where there is going to be a great deal of doubt. It’s so interesting to see that in this configuration if one is looking at the 63, that one can see very clearly that to be in an intellectual environment of doubt and questioning is also to be in a deeply nurturing intellectual environment as a potential. It can also be very distressing and depressing. 

The Determined Strength to Move Through the Spiral
Again, it will depend on the nature of that being and how they are going to operating in their life. After all, the fact that there is a Nodal environment for us means that unless we are aware of the environment, we’re very far away from being correct. And the more correct we are, the clearer it is that this is the environment that we have to work with and the characters on the stage that we have to deal with who influence us in terms of the way in which their auras operate. 

The 63rd gate is: in the spiral of life all ends are beginnings; and the 64 is: transition, like birth, requires a determined strength for the passage through. It is this determined strength to move through the spiral, the continuity of the process, all of this is background of this particular environment. 

These Beings Are Deeply Influenced By the Intellectual Process in Life
Whether you’re moving from the 63 to the 64 or from the 64 to the 63, everything about your development is that you are here to be deeply influenced by the intellectual process in life. It is essential for you to be in an environment where there are those that stimulate that capacity, that to be in the right environment regardless of whether the environment is filled with confusion or the environment is filled with doubt, the moment that one is truly entrenched in such an environment therein lies the deep potential to fulfill one’s purpose within that context.

This is the magic of the Nodes. They’re wonderful. They set the stage. But more than just the scenery, they fill the stage with the beings that are going to be part of that environment that nurtures your potential for purpose. 
