The 21st and 48th Nodes
The 21st Gate: Control
When we’re dealing with the 21st gate, we’re dealing with a very, very powerful ego gate.  As a powerful ego gate, it is a gate of control and in many ways is the focus for whether or not the tribe is going to succeed or not.  It is this very level of control of the 21 that ultimately can find the expression for the tribe and its potential to manifest in the Throat.  And when we’re dealing with the 21, we’re dealing with the theme of justified and necessary use of power in overcoming deliberate and persistent interference.  

Whenever you see this as a Nodal element, whether it’s going to be the South Node or the North Node, you know that you’re going to have an environment where there is deliberate and persistent interference in the environment.  In other words, that this is going to be a background, the stage upon which this life operates, regardless of whether it’s going to be the first half or the second half of that life, in which there are all kinds of forces that make it exceedingly difficult to stay in control.  Control is this theme and there is this constant interference.  There is the persistent and deliberate interference that is also there in the background.

Now remember this is not the thematic of the Profile, but this is the environment in which the Profile has to find itself.  And whether it finds itself through the use of this or that force or power or whatever the case may be, whatever is inherent within the Profile itself, the reality is the only way in which that Profile is going to lead to fulfillment as purpose is by dealing with the background of deliberate and persistent interference.  

One of the things about acceptance is the recognition that we don’t see properly.  And everything about this is how one sees.  In other words, if one is not operating correctly it can become overwhelming to have an environment where there is always interference, where there are always attempts to get in one’s way, and that one can turn on that and end up being very, very depressed that the world is against one, and ultimately that one falls by the wayside rather than being able to operate correctly and fulfill one’s purpose through that environment.  And in fact, if one is operating correctly that environment of potential interference and all of that that’s there doesn’t necessarily mean it’s a negative.  It’s the very thing necessary for the fulfillment of the process.

The 48th Gate: The Common Good
On the other side we have the 48th gate, The Well.  The Well is a gate of depth.  It’s a necessary and qualitative foundation that is a prerequisite to establish the common good.  Everything having to do about the logical process is about ensuring that there is a secure and viable future for all of us.  And in setting this foundation, in other words coming with solutions, solutions that can be of benefit to humanity, is that this is the environment.  

Now, what it means, quite literally, is that the common good is not established.  So for example, if one has the 48th gate in the South Node phase, it is clear that the common good is not being serviced, and it is dealing with the dilemma of the common good not being serviced that becomes the impetus for that Profile of that being in operating correctly to find its purpose in that very environment.

The other thing is that the 48th gate can be one of the most frustrated of all gates.  And what I mean by that is where the 18th gate, its direct relationship in its logical stream, sees what needs to be corrected, it’s the responsibility of the 48th gate to find a solution.  Yet in finding the solution there is no easy ability to be able to act on that solution since the 48th gate is in the Spleen.  It’s not a motor; it’s not necessarily connected to either the Sacral or the Throat.  So, the environment of the common good is also going to be filled with lots of people who have opinions about how things can be better, how the common good and the foundation for the common good can be established.

You can see here in this combination, the background environment is an unstable one.  In other words, this is a background environment where to be able to operate in the world and to operate well that one sees immediately with this Nodal construct that there are many things that need to be done.  So, this is a stage in which there are all kinds of potential inspiration to transcend whatever the dilemmas are.  But again, that can only be achieved through the fulfillment of the purpose.  That is, in operating correctly, being able to make decisions through one’s true inner authority and thus be able to fulfill the potential of one’s role on this stage.
posted on November 22
