The 31st and 41st Nodes
The 31st Gate: Friction

When we begin with the 31st gate, we have the expression in the Throat of the logical system and its potential for leadership. This is the gate of leading and it’s part of the Channel of the Alpha. Everything about the nature of the 31st gate is that it’s all about friction. The law of friction, whether active or passive, that engenders transference and thus influence. It’s something truly to understand that to come into this life and have the 31st gate as a Node is to understand that there is going to be friction that is out there in the environment. You’re going to be sensitive to friction in the environment, whether that friction is going to be active or passive.

The thing to understand about the nature of logical leadership, and it’s one of the things that so often is seen as the negative, for example in our political culture, the fact that in democratic systems, we have this endless bickering and arguing between one side or the other side of the spectrum with each other. One of things to see so clearly about the way in which collective leadership operates is that collective leadership grows out of friction. It grows out of friction because without the friction, without the interchange, without the logical expression of the patterns there is no way to influence the others. This is an environment that can be very uncomfortable if one does not accept that this is the way. In other words, that friction is the way. The interchange is the way to find growth ultimately, to be able to develop ultimately. 

The 41st Gate: Resources

On the other side you have the 41st gate. This is the gate of Decrease. The 41st gate is deeply significant because this is the Initiating Codon. In other words, this is the gate in the Root Center that is at the root of what is the human experiential way. When we’re dealing with the 41st gate as an environmental gate, as a Nodal gate, how important it is to see that at its very basis this is an environment in which resources are the theme.

Everything about the 41st gate is that it is a gate of desire. So it’s very important to understand that there is this background theme, this pressure of desire that is in the environment. And with that pressure of desire comes the reality. The reality is that it’s the limitation of resources which maximizes development of potential. Think about that. This is the 41st gate. It is the very limitation of resources which maximizes the development of potential. The mother of necessity—out of necessity comes all of these extraordinary possibilities and inventions and whatever. But it’s also important to see the corollary of that. In other words, that the lack of limitation of resources always minimizes the development of potential. 

So here you have an environment in which there are those who don’t have the resources who are driven to do the best that they can. And out of that comes the possibilities of progress, which is the ultimate theme of the experiential way. And on the other side, in the environment, there are going to be those who have too many resources and having too many resources is a limitation. In other words, that very limitation is something that will lead to conservatism, trying to conserve whatever that relative abundance is as opposed to the potential that comes out of having the limitation and being able to develop.

So, one of the things to keep in mind about this 31/41 polarity that this is very, very close to the most dynamic and central mundane themes of life on the planet. And those who carry the 41/31 are sensitive to, and see around them, the basic themes and the basic wants of the planet.

Commentators often make the comment that here are all these children starving in this country or another country with some plague, famine, whatever the case may be, and their accusation of apathy or indifference in the majority of those in wealthy countries, who don’t do anything about it. The fact is that they don’t see it. It’s not like it’s their fault. There are only certain beings that see certain things. And you can see with the 32 various polarities that there are these basic primary 32 different ways in which we look at the world around us in which we are personally attuned to find a way to develop our purpose. 

The 31/41 is a Nodal environment. If this is something that you are carrying, please understand that your sensitivity to this kind of world that you see is the foundation of your fulfillment of your purpose; obviously, as long as you’re operating correctly as yourself.
posted on June 4
