The 27th and 28th Nodes
The 28th Gate: Transitoriness of Power and Influence 

Sic transit gloria mundi — the 28th gate, the Preponderance of the Great, the transitoriness of power and influence.  This is very important to understand in the context of the 28th gate, which is a gate of the fear of death, the fear of lack of value or purpose in life.  One of the things to be clear about is that purpose is not about career.  This is not to be confused with the 32.  That purpose is something else.  That purpose is a deeper fulfillment within life itself regardless of one’s circumstances.  

The Nodal 28, the transitoriness of power and influence, here we’re going to have a background environment in which this is the obvious.  In other words, what we’re going to see on the stage of this life is power and influence as something that’s transitory — people who gain power and lose it, people who have influence and lose it—this is going to be the background stage.

Remember this is one of the keys in understanding Nodes.  The Node is representing the environment that one is designed to be a part of, but it doesn’t mean that one is the environment.  And the ability to fulfill one’s purpose, that purpose is fulfilled exclusively through that environment.  In other words, it doesn’t necessarily mean that the being is going to go through the transitoriness of power and influence, but power and influence are going to be the background of its life.  That it’s going to see the transitoriness of this because it is going to be all around it.  And whether or not it is caught up in one side or the other in its process is moot, because it is the environment that’s necessary simply to fulfill its purpose.

The 27th Gate: Caring

The 27th gate is the enhancement of the quality and the substance of all activities through caring.  This is the gate of Nourishment.  This is a genetic role gate.  It’s a role gate for caring.  It is part of the Channel of Preservation and it’s the gate of caring.  And here in dealing with the 27 as a Nodal aspect, this is an environment in which caring is there.  In other words, the quality and substance of life is enriched through caring, and this is what is obviously in the environment, the stage upon which this person is leading their life.

It does not mean necessarily that they’re going to be caring beings simply because their Node happens to be in the 27th gate.  What it will mean is that if they’re operating correctly they will be aligned to this environment and they will be aligned to the value of caring, the value of nurturing within the context of the environment.  But it is the environment that is going to set the foundation for their process or for their purpose.  

When you’re looking at the Nodal movement you begin to see—remember because we’re dealing with oppositions in the wheel, we are dealing with mirrors—there is a natural movement; there is a natural relationship moving from one side to the other.  If you begin your life as a South Node 27, then you begin a life in which the environment around you is a nurturing environment.  It is a caring environment.  And that caring environment is then going to lead you into the transitoriness of power and influence.  

In other words, the fact that one is well-nurtured, the fact that one is deeply looked after as an example, that there is a nurturing environment around does not necessarily mean that in and of itself guarantees the retention of either power or influence.  Power or influence is transitoriness.  And of course, one could begin to speculate about the psychological consequences of seeing that despite the fact that you may nurture something, that that thing in and of itself simply because it’s well-nurtured, well-loved, doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s going to come out the way you want it to, or it’s going to turn out correctly.

The other side is to come into a world on the 28 side Nodally speaking, and come into a world where transitoriness is the obvious, where there is this constant discontinuity in the process, only to move into the second half of the life where regardless of the fact that there happens to be transitoriness in power and influence, that nurturing and caring bring quality to the life process.
