The 42nd and 32nd Nodes
The 42nd Gate: The Demand for Growth

This is one of the most difficult Nodal polarities, difficult in the sense that it is a polarity that lays a foundation for the potential fulfillment of purpose on a stage where there is always threat and risk, and there is always uncertainty.  The 42nd gate is the gate of Increase.  It is the gate of growth, and it is part of the abstract.  In other words, this is a deep, deep process, a deep Sacral process, and it’s all about: The expansion of resources which maximizes the development of full potential.  

So, the 42nd gate is a demand for growth, and of course this demand for growth leads to dilemmas when one isn’t operating correctly.  That is, to enter into the right experience, the experience that’s going to be fulfilling, the experience that’s going to bring development into your life, that in order to do so you have to know how to make the right decision as yourself.  So, without that right decision, this whole drive for growth can end up being very disturbing.  In other words, you can end up using massive amounts of energy to enter into a process where you think that growth is going to be the result of that, only to discover that it’s a retrogressive process and in fact all it leads to is dilemmas and crisis.  

The 32nd Gate: Change

On the other side of that you have the 32nd gate, which is the gate of Duration: The only thing that endures is change.  So you can see that here you have a Nodal environment in which change and growth are the theme.  Now obviously if you have a Nodal environment that is rooted in the 32nd gate, the environment around you is going to be full of uncertainty.  In other words, change is always going to be there. More than that, the 32nd gate, which is a gate of continuity, is always disturbed when continuity is not something that is realizable.  In other words, without being able to see the continuity in the process, the first result of that is that—the 32nd gate is out of the Splenic Center and the Splenic Center carries all of our primal fears—the 32nd gate deals with the fear of failure.  

Remember, this is not about describing the 32nd gate as a Profile gate.  This is the 32nd gate as a Nodal gate.  And when you see the 32nd gate as a Nodal gate, what it’s really saying to you is that the people that are going to be there in your life are the ones who are going to be constantly dealing with these fears of failure.  That’s the environment.  The environment is people that are afraid of failure driven to thinking that growth is the answer.  This is the whole process.

It doesn’t matter if you’re going from the 42 to the 32 or the 32 to the 42; you’re dealing with a fundamentally unstable environment.  Growth in and of itself doesn’t mean that  it is stable.  The growth in itself is littered with problems, mistakes, all of the possibilities that come with growth because you’re entering into something that is new.  So this Nodal environment, this fear of failure, the fear of failure if one cannot grow properly, this is the stage.  This is what the main players in the background of this being’s life—these are going to be the dynamic themes that are going to be at work.  And you see when you’re looking at the Nodes, how important it is to understand that you’re seeing the right environment for you.  

One of the most interesting things if you look into the analysis of this,look at various human beings in their design, that one of the most uncomfortable areas for people in their design are the Nodes, because the environment that the Nodes are bringing, the not-self is always going to react negatively to that environment.  “Why is everybody concerned with failure?”  Yet in fact, this is a being whose fulfillment of their purpose is only possible in this environment. 

Obviously, if you’re operating correctly and you’re fulfilling the potential of your purpose through your Profile, this will not be a life in which you will be at a loss, where you will be caught in these fears of failure and all the other things that go with this configuration.  It means that you will be in a world where that is a theme, and yet at the same time, you have the potential to operate perfectly within that framework.  As a matter of fact, it is that framework that offers you the potential of your own perfection. 
