The 49th and the 4th Nodes
Doubt and Questioning

The 49th gate, Revolution, in the Quarter of Initiation, and opposite is the 4th gate,Youthful Folly in the Quarter of Duality. What you have here as a Nodal environment that is the revolutionary formula; this synthetic formula combination that is the Nodal environment or the Nodal background. It means it combines two things: an environment of doubt and questioning. An environment of doubt and questioning is something that can be deeply, deeply stimulating in the life. This environment leads to trying to come up with resolutions to whatever the doubt in the environment has to be.

The South Node in the 4th Gate
Remember that to have a Nodal environment that is rooted, for example, in doubt—let's say you have a South Node that is a 4—is to recognize that this is not about creating uncertainty in your life but it's about stimulating the intellectual development and the discussion of doubts, and trying to resolve them ultimately for the benefit of humanity. This is one of those environments that is very, very important in terms of stimulation intellectually.

The 49th Gate: Revolution
The 49th gate on the other side is in the realm of initiation, this is Revolution and this is all about the potential for transformation of society based on the highest principles. When you see this in a background, you can see it in one of two ways and they're quite different in the way they operate.

The South Node in the 4th Gate
If you're starting with the 4 as the South Node theme, in that intellectual environment, the doubts ultimately are going to be focused on the impact of society. This is the thematic within this opposition. The doubts will lead to intellectual investigation. Basically, the logical process, in terms of the logical formula, is trying to find a pattern in which there is freedom from punishment. In other words, a
pattern in which everyone can operate in way in which it is comfortable for them and is not offensive to the other. All of this, ultimately, is about a social transition.

If you're going from the 4 to the 49, you can go through this process of the doubts and the intellectual environment that investigates its social reality. This, by the way, doesn't have to be just intellectual. It can be very much involved with an emotional reaction to it. In other words, in the background you are going to have people who are always discussing the problems that are there in the world around them.

Ultimately this can lead to revolution. It can lead to a new standard, or the establishment of a different way in which the environment operates. Or, the very fact that you can move from your doubts about a particular environment only to see it flourish as you move towards the second half of your life.

The South Node in the 49th Gate
If you're operating from the 49 as the South Node, then you have to see that at the very beginning of your process, the environment is going to be one in which the community is going to be rigidly established on specific principles and you're going to have to move through this society and the way the rules have been laid out. Only when you get to the second half of your life are there really going to be doubts that emerge about that society.

Remember, when I say doubts emerge, it's going to be because the environment offers you those opportunities to see the doubts. The environment is going to be full of background characters who are in the play of your life revealing and sharing their doubts. This is an environmental background.

The fact that we act in a certain way according to that background is because we are literally caught in its conditioning field. And yet, this is the stage upon which we can fulfill our purpose. And as always, that goes back to the basics of Human Design: Operate correctly according to your Strategy, according to your Inner Authority and take advantage of the stage upon which your life is set. 
