The 15th Gate: Extremes

The 15th gate, like the 5th gate, the channel 15/5, the Channel of Rhythm, this design of being in the flow, is a universal gate. This is one of the gates of love and it is the gate of the potential love of humanity or not. What is so interesting about the 10/15 polarity is that both of them are essentially about behavior. That is, the 10th gate is about personal behavior and the 15th gate is about collective behavior.

The 15th gate, Modesty, is the quality of behavior that expresses the proper balance between extremes. So if you have the 15th gate as a Nodal configuration, then you know that the environment around you, or at least your sensitivity to the environment, or the way in which you experience the environment around you, is that you will experience an environment in which there is a struggle to find a balance between the extremes. In other words, there is going to be all kinds of behavior in the environmental zone. The people that you’re going to see around you, what you’re going to be attuned to, is that you’re going to be attuned to the extremes in behavior in people in your life, people that are there around you and impacting you in that sense.

The 10th Gate: Behavior

On the other side you have the 10th gate and of course the 10th gate is deeply complex. That is, it is the personal behavior gate that is at the very basis of the integration channels. In other words, it’s at the root of our individuality and this is the gate of the behavior of the self, the gate of Treading. It says: The underlying code of behavior which ensures successful interaction despite circumstances. So, one of the things to see here is that with the Node in the 10th gate, what is there or not, what one is sensitive to is whether the other human beings are operating with an underlying code of behavior. One of the realities of the 10th gate is that if you have the 10th gate in your design and you’re dealing with somebody who doesn’t invariably have a code of behavior, then you’re going to have problems with the way in which they behave. In other words, somebody without a 10th gate, there is no consistency in the way in which they operate.

The 10/15 as a Nodal environment is something that can be an environment in which everything ultimately is about behavior. In other words, that the life platform for the person who has this as a Node, that the real themes of life around them, is whether behavior is going to be correct or not. If the environment doesn’t have an underlying code of behavior, if there is no proper balance between the extremes, this is part of the essential environment for this person that would have this Nodal configuration. 

Remember, the Nodes are not personal. All the other activations that are objects, that are filtering agents in the neutrino stream, are personal. But the Nodes are not personal. They truly are environmental. It is what you connect to in the environment. So, one of the themes for this being is that they’re going to connect to the behavioral level of the environment around them. And the themes that are going to be there around them in their life are the evidence of the problems of extreme behavior, the evidence of the difficulties in life if one doesn’t have an underlying code of behavior that is consistent; all of this is going to be there in the environment. 

But it doesn’t mean that if you have these Nodes that you’re the one that’s going to have difficulty in finding an underlying code of behavior. This is what you’re attuned to in your environment. In being correct within yourself, operating correctly according to your Strategy and your Authority, then the fulfillment of your purpose, the fulfillment of your Profile on your Cross, all becomes possible because it’s operating out of exactly the right environmental foundation. 

Our Nodes really represent the right environment both physically and psychologically for us in order to be able to fulfill our nature. One of the things to see so clearly about the Nodes is that they are wonderful signposts along the way. As you operate more and more correctly as yourself, as you become more aware, you’re seeing changes.

If you have the 10/15, this is what you’re here to see. In other words, you’re here to see the problems in extreme behavior, the problems that exist in not having underlying codes of behavior. You’re here to see that where others may not see it at all. And if you’re not operating correctly, you may not only not see it, but whatever it is and in a lack of understanding of it, you can reject it, and as such try to not see it and fail to live out your potential.
posted on April 2
