The 52nd and the 58th Nodes
The 52nd Gate: Assessment

This is a fascinating one. When we look at the 52nd gate, Keeping Still Mountain, this is the gate of inaction. It is: The temporary and self-imposed inaction for the benefit of assessment. One of the things to recognize about this Nodal environment is that there are benefits that can be derived from assessment. Yet, the benefits that can be derived from assessment depend on the discipline to be able to self-impose inaction. In other words, it’s the discipline to hold back one’s temptation to deal with the pressures that are going to be there. 

When we’re dealing with the 52/58 as a Nodal environment, we’re dealing with a high pressure environment. We are dealing with two gates that are operating out of the Root Center, and the Root Center is a pressure center. So, the 52/58 as a Nodal configuration represents an environment where there is a great deal of pressure. And that pressure operates at all levels. So there is tremendous pressure in the sense of the 52. There is all this pressure to be active when in fact there is only going to be benefits derived when there is assessment through inaction.

The 58th Gate: Stimulation

On the other side you have the 58th gate, The Joyous, the gate of aliveness. Everything about the nature of Joyous is that it is an enormously powerful pressure force. It is: Stimulation is the key to joy. So here we have this extraordinary pressure to be stimulated. It’s one of the things to understand, this is a logical pressure gate that is all about the logical experience in life, within the language of the circuit, of the logical experiment in life. Of course, the stimulation is absolutely necessary. The more one is stimulated, the more one is identified; the more one is involved, the more joy that can be there. 

So you can see that we have an environment where there is not going to be necessarily enough stimulation. This is one of the themes we’re dealing with when you have the 52/58 as a Nodal environment. This inactivity and lack of stimulation is so much a part of the environment around. People are not assessing things because there is a lack of stimulation. The moment there is something that is offered to do, the background environment is an environment that is filled with people who do not benefit because they are jumping into things. The fact is that if one is not properly stimulated, if there isn’t that stimulation there, then there is no joy. Of course, there is the potential for despair and the potential for darkness that lies on the other side. 

So, this is an environment that is under deep, deep pressure, and an environment that is seeking out something very basic. In other words, it’s seeking an advantage in life. Of course, that advantage in life is two-fold. One part of that advantage is very important. That is, it is the advantage of something as difficult to put a definition on as joy. In other words, life must be more than simply toil. There has to be something in life that is rewarding and fulfilling. So it is an environment that is looking for something greater than what it seems to be, or appears to be in the environment.

The other side, in looking at the 52 is to see this temporary and self-imposed inaction. And of course, this is one of the dilemmas. It is not about not involving oneself in action. The benefit comes from being able to be inactive so that one can focus or concentrate, to be inactive long enough to assess the situation.

This is not the 52/58 as if it were a Profile configuration. This is a Nodal environment. And the thing to be clear about the Nodal environment is what it represents to us personally that this is what we’re sensitive to in the world around us. In other words, if you have the 52/58, you’re going to be sensitive to the fact that there are not enough pauses before it jumps. You’re going to be sensitive to the fact that there’s a real need for stimulation in life and you’re going to see the phenomena of these two gates operating in the environment around you.

It’s the way in which your perspective is attuned. Like always, in order for you to fulfill the potential of your purpose you have to operate correctly as yourself. And in operating correctly as yourself, honoring your strategy and your inner authority, then you’re going to be able to take advantage of the environment and the way in which you perceive it.
