The 12th and 11th Nodes
The Dropping of the Larynx

The 12 and the 11 are one of the most extraordinary of all oppositions. It’s extraordinary in the very personal sense, the personal sense of what it is to be human. It is this opposition that carried one of the most important mutations for humanity in the past. That is, the dropping of the larynx that took place between 80 and 90 thousand years ago. This dropping of the larynx, which was a mutation that is still carried by all females, allowed our vocal chamber to open up. It was a mutation that changed the way in which we breathed. That is, we can no longer breathe and drink at the same time the way our primate ancestors could and our hominid ancestors could.

In opening up the vocal chamber, basically this dropping of the larynx allowed us to be able to create a real profound variety of sound nuances and to have the control to be able to maintain and remember those nuances which ultimately would lead to what we call language. And obviously language is the most extraordinary evolutionary step of humanity in terms of its relationship to all other bio forms. 

This ability to be able to communicate through tonal nuances has allowed us to grow in terms of our self-reflected consciousness. And the capacity of our intelligence has allowed us to grow at an exponential rate so that in a very short period of time, which in geological terms is absolutely nothing, we literally have gone from, at the mental level, from very, very deeply limited primitive mammalian relationship to the environment to where we are today. So the 11/12 is something that’s very significant. When you see the 11/12 within the context of the Nodes, again, remember that the first thing to understand is that if you have these Nodes, this is what you’re going to be sensitive to in the environment around you.

The 12th Gate: Temptation
We begin with looking at the 12. Now the 12 is the quality of restraint. This is the gate of Standstill. It’s the gate of caution. It says: The quality of restraint and importance of meditation and inaction in confronting temptation. So guess what? What are you attuned to? If this is your Node, then you’re attuned to the temptations that are there in the world because it’s all around you. You can see temptation at work all around you and you can see how little meditation and inaction there is in the face of temptation around you.

Remember that this is the environment that is exactly correct for you in order for you to be able to fulfill your own purpose. And if your environment is not filled with the power of temptation, then you’re really not in the right environment. That is, you are not operating correctly. You’re not seeing what you’re here to see. It’s seeing. It’s all about seeing. If you’re operating correctly you’re going to be sensitive to the right things in your environment even though those things may be disturbing, like the results of being moved by temptation before there is meditation. 

The 11th Gate: Action
On the other side we have the 11th gate, the gate of Peace, the gate of ideas, a conceptual gate. It is the harmonic condition in the individual or society that permits assessment before renewed action. Well guess what? You are sensitive then to the whole action process in the world. Temptation and action, temptation and action, temptation and constant action without necessarily the assessment, without that either being a quality of the society or the individual, and you see it all around you. 

So, if you come into the world and you have the 11/12 as a Nodal configuration, then you come into a world of temptation and action. And you come into a world where the way in which the environment can become healthier is when there is meditation, when there is assessment. But it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s there. And it doesn’t necessarily mean that any of that is about you. It’s simply about what you are sensitive to in the environment around you. It is that sensitivity that is the bedrock, because when you are aware of this temptation and action in the world around you, then you’re operating correctly. That for you, there is this opportunity in honoring your inner Authority and your Strategy to fulfill the purpose that is inherent in your Profile.
