The 56th and 60th Nodes
The 56th Gate: Movement

When we begin with the 56th gate, we have the gate of stimulation and this is The Wanderer. Everything about the 56th gate is its metamorphic capacity to transform our inner vision into ideas, ideas that can be expressed verbally. One of the things to realize about the nature of the 56th gate as a Throat gate, it’s a gate that expresses both pleasure and pain as a way of stimulating others. And it’s one of the things to see about the nature of the environment that this is going to represent as a Node.

Stability through movement. So, here’s an environment where there is constant movement. Remember that this is the perception, to look out in the world and see that everything is moving, that everything is busy. It is the perpetuation of continuity through the linking of short-term activities. Here we have an environment where there is a tremendous amount of activity and there is a tremendous amount of movement. But one of the things to keep in mind is that this activity and this movement carry a patina that colors it either towards the side of pleasure or the side of pain. This is also an environment that is full of belief systems where there is a tremendous amount of effort in trying to attain the products of beliefs and belief systems. 

The 60th Gate: Limitation

On the other side, we have the 60th gate and the 60th gate is the gate of Limitation. Of course, this is an individual gate and it’s a format energy, it’s in the Root Center, so again we have a pressure system that is there. One of the things to keep in mind is that if you have the 56th gate in the South Node phase then you’re going to have a very verbal environment. You’re going to have the kind of environment where there is a great deal of sharing of ideas. There is movement in those ideas, they move from one idea to the other, believing in one thing and then believing in the next thing.

The moment that you enter into the 60 Nodal environment, you enter into limitation. In other words, you meet the wall. And in meeting that wall, you get an environment that can be populated with a lot of very depressed beings. The 60th gate, like all the gates that are part of format energies, always has the potential for depression. And the 60th gate, already being individual, brings a lot of melancholy and the potential of creativity in the environment.

But this is: The acceptance of limitation is the first step in transcendence. This is something that’s very interesting about the environment. Here you’re going from an environment that is full of activity, an environment that is full of movement then all of a sudden you hit the brick wall of limitations. Without the limitations, without that as an environment, there is no way to find transcendence.

Potential for Transcendence
Somebody who has the 56/60 as a Nodal configuration in their design built into their environment is always the potential for transcendence, and always the potential to be around those and to see those who in accepting limitation, begin this process of transcending whatever the limitation happens to be.

But again, it’s very important to understand that this is a quite a complex Nodal variation. If you’re starting with the South Node in the 60th gate, then limitation is really going to be the scene, and there is going to be a lot of both limitation and people trying to get away from the limitation and failing because limitation is just that. One cannot transcend limitation until one accepts it. So there can be quite a constrained environment.

On the other side, that movement to the 56 will immediately open everything up. But it will open it up in a way that can be just as destabilizing. In other words, this constant movement and activity, particularly in dealing with ideas and belief systems and the way in which these things can be shifting. It can be an environment where there are all kinds of confusing visions about what life is, where one can go in this life, how one can transform one’s life.

Somebody who has this as a Nodal configuration, remember this is what you see in the environment around you that gives you the very basis upon which you can fulfill your own purpose in this life.
