The 33rd and the 19th Nodes
The 33rd Gate: Weakness

We begin with the 33rd gate, the gate of Retreat. It is the gate of privacy and it’s in the Throat Center. One of the things about this gate is that it is a gate of remembrance, it’s a gate of revelation, and it is a gate of potential articulation. After all, we’re dealing with a gate that is in the Throat. It is the capacity, in that sense, to remember or not.

So, when we’re dealing with the 33 as a Nodal environment, one of the things that is very much a part of that environment is a sensitivity to the stories of people and the sensitivity to the experiential process that human beings have gone through. There is an ear, in that sense, for those stories. Everything about the environment of the 33 is about weakness. It’s about the transformation of weakness and its potential transformation into strength. That transformation into strength through both the ability to be able to go into retreat; but, the essence of that is the ability to think things over, to process them, to make sense out of them, to clarify experience. Out of that clarifying, out of that role of witnessing, to be able to articulate what one has discovered, what has been revealed.

So, here we’re dealing with an environment in which there is a great deal of weakness. Amongst the weakness are those that have stories of the movement from weakness to strength. This is a perception. If you carry the 33rd Node, this is something that you’re always aware of. It’s something that you’re always sensitive to in the environment around you, the sensitivity to the general weakness that is there in the environment. At the same time, what you see in classic literature, the heroism, the heroic journeys, the quests, all of these things are also part of that environment. It’s part of that revelation, the witness story, how experience can transform the weak, in that sense, into strength.

It’s important, again, to realize that this is not a Profile. In other words, this is simply a perception of the environment, or what one is sensitive to in the way in which one perceives the environment. But it is precisely in such an environment that one’s purpose, and the potential of one’s purpose can be fulfilled.

The 19th Gate: Neediness

On the other side, we have the 19th gate. The 19th gate is the gate Approach and this is a gate that is under a tremendous amount of pressure at this time as we come to the closing years of this particular cycle. The 19th gate is the gate of wanting. It is a gate that carries with it the pressure out of the Root System, a pressure of neediness. Of course, you can see that on one side there is this environment where one perceives weakness and at the same time one also gets to hear of transcendence. That is, the stories of transcendence. On the other side you have this deep neediness for resources, for protection, for the security of relationships, for the security of religion. And there is a neediness that is there within the environment itself.

That neediness is displayed through approach. In other words, this is an environment where one is sensitive to the fact that there are all these beings that want, that lack so much, and that there is this deep need that resides within them. Obviously, when we’re dealing with the need for the thematics that run out of the 19th gate, we’re going to see that they’re also going to be present. That is, if you have the 19th gate as a Nodal configuration, you are going to be very sensitive to those who take advantage of the needy. And whether they’re taking advantage under the guises of a white hat or wearing a black hat doesn’t really make a difference. The fact is that it’s going to be very clear that the weak and the needy are often taken advantage of in the environment, that all things are interrelated as apparent and manifested through the action of approach. It is this interrelatedness that forms the deepest essence of this background.

The 19 and the 33 are very significant. They are gates of the right angle configuration of the Cross of the Four Ways. These two ways are ways that are deeply seen by somebody who carries this Nodal configuration. It is very clear that there is this great weakness and neediness in the world. It is from that platform of that recognition that the potential of one’s purpose is fulfilled through correctness, through following one’s strategy and one’s inner authority.
posted on June 11
