The 8th and 14th Nodes
The 14th Gate: Accumulation and Retention of Power

This particular polarity is the perfect match of the yin-yang 2nd gate/1st gate polarity.  As a matter of fact, if you put these two polarities together you have complete definition from the Sacral Center running up through the central individual column right to the Throat Center.  It’s very important to keep in mind this connection between the two of them.  

One of the things to realize about the nature of environments in your life is that there are many stages that blend naturally with others.  Obviously, this is a complex environment.  It’s not like each and every one of us is living in their own unique backstage on some movie lot where they have their exclusive group in the environment.  The environment itself is multidimensional.  And within that environment are many aspects.  If you’re somebody that has a 1/2 Nodal configuration and you’re with somebody who has a 14/8 Nodal configuration, this is going to lead to the foregrounding, if I can describe it that way, of the combination of these two.  In other words, that a different kind of background seems to emerge simply out of those forces in the environment on that stage that are highlighted because of that condition.

In dealing with the 8 and the 14, the 14 is Possession in Great Measure.  It is the Sacral energy that drives direction in the life.  This is the accumulation and retention of power through skilled interaction, coupling grace and control.  And it is about an environment where there is an effort to develop skills, but to develop skills that are correct for the energy; in other words, really to be able to use one’s energy correctly.  And in using one’s energy correctly, you can see how many different ways—after all this is the deepest theme of the generative force, is that the generative force becomes frustrated the moment that it is not using its energy correctly.  And everything about the stage of this Nodal environment is where there is going to be this need to use one’s energy correctly.

Now remember, the way in which an environment is described in terms of its lines doesn’t mean that that’s what the environment displays, but it displays the very need for what the environment demands.  In other words, the skilled interaction is not something that is simply there.  It’s something that emerges.  It’s a demand that is there within the environment.  In other words, the environment is calling for skilled interaction.  And of course because it’s calling for it, you already know that skilled interaction can be missing from it.  Otherwise, it wouldn’t be something that was being called.  

The fact that accumulation and retention of power is a thematic of the environment doesn’t mean that everybody in the environment is accumulating and holding power.  It’s that that is the theme of the environment.  And it means there are a lot of people who can’t accumulate and don’t retain power, and of course that creates within that environment the desire to be able to find a way through skilled interaction to be able to do those things.

The 8th Gate: Making a Contribution

On the other side we have the 8th gate.  We have Holding Together, and holding together is the expression in the throat of the creative role model.  It is really about making a contribution in this life in terms of the way it operates as a Profile.  In its Nodal configuration this is about basic worth realized in contributing individual efforts to group goals.  

Now again, think about this within the context of a Nodal environment.  It doesn’t mean that worth is necessarily being realized by individuals contributing to group goals.  But it means that worth can be recognized as being valuable when individuals contribute to group goals.  And then you can end up seeing that a lot of group goals in that environment aren’t being fulfilled because there isn’t that individual contribution that brings that difference, that uniqueness to whatever the experience or the environment demands.  

Nodal environments are not simply a matter of stating: Look, this is what’s there.  It’s also stating at the same time what isn’t there, but what it’s moving towards as well.  And always for you to keep in mind that your Profile doesn’t have to be aligned in that sense, in its value sense, in its analytical language to the environment you’re in.  But it is important for you to see that the fulfillment of your Profile and the fulfillment of your purpose can only take place within such an environment.
