COLOR CONSCIOUNESS
Beyond the Gate
Ra Uru Hu
International Human Design School
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
Cover/Mau Cattaneo
Transcribed/Patricia Balentine
Proofed/Jeri Sahlin
Layout/Becky Markley
The original course illustrations are included.
The Rave BodyGraph™ and Rave Mandala™ are registered trademarks of Jovian Archive Corporation.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
ii
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Lesson One ................................................................................................... 1
Colors 1, 2, and 3 ......................................................................................... 1
The Consciousness Field ............................................................................. 1
The Neutrino Ocean .................................................................................... 2
The Color Consciousness Field ..................................................................... 4
The Mandala of All Forms Other than Humans ............................................... 5
The Consciousness Field is Not Human.......................................................... 5
The 1st Color: Fear ..................................................................................... 7
The 2nd Color: Hope .................................................................................... 9
The 3rd Color: Desire ................................................................................ 11
The Challenge of the Evolution of Cognition ................................................. 13
Lesson Two ................................................................................................ 15
Colors 4, 5 and 6 ........................................................................................ 15
The Color Consciousness Field: The Natural World ........................................ 15
The Disappearance of Bees ....................................................................... 16
Pluto’s Transits ........................................................................................ 16
The 4th Color: Need .................................................................................. 19
The 5th Color: Guilt ................................................................................... 21
The 6th Color: Innocence ........................................................................... 22
The Key to the Mapping is the Integration System ....................................... 24
Innocence: No Longer Being Caught in Comparison ...................................... 24
Transference ........................................................................................... 25
The Mind and Motivation ........................................................................... 25
The Natural World Controlling Our Lives ...................................................... 27
~
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
iii
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
iv
Lecture One
Colors 1, 2, and 3
Hello to all of you. Over the last
couple of years I’ve been delving
deeper and deeper into the
substructure, into the infrastructure
of the way in which we are
programmed. And in doing so I’ve
been able to focus a great deal of
attention on the levels beneath the
line with a particular emphasis on
tone and color because of its significance in how it impacts us, in fact, the way in
which we are programmed.
The Consciousness Field
When I first began to encounter so-called new age thinking materials, the idea of a
consciousness field was something that had been explored for a very long time, the
idea that it is everywhere in consciousness. The metaphors for consciousness and
the metaphors for the consciousness field and all of these things, and many different
interpretations of what it is, the real beauty of this knowledge is that it reveals
fundamental mechanics. In order to understand the consciousness field, one cannot
speak of a consciousness field in the absence of the crystals of consciousness.
In other words, as much as we would like to think that consciousness permeates
everything and is everywhere, that is, everywhere within the context of the totality,
the biverse, it’s simply not so. There are aspects of consciousness that are
everywhere. But the fact of the matter is, the consciousness field is something that
is deeply concentrated, and it is concentrated through the body, the only vehicle that
it can operate through.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
1
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
The Neutrino Ocean
There is an assumption that the neutrino or the neutrino ocean as I refer to it is in
fact the consciousness field. And it really is not. The thing that is so interesting
about the neutrino ocean, the neutrino streaming is that this is just, how can I put
this, it is food for consciousness. It is the raw data that can be transformed into
consciousness. It is a data ocean, if you will, and it is a data ocean that can only be
interpreted, can only be expressed through the crystal.
So, when we’re thinking about the neutrino stream, when we’re thinking about the
way in which we are programmed, the first thing to recognize about the neutrino
stream is that it is sending us data. But how that data is going to be interpreted, or
how that data is going to be filtered, that, in fact, is where consciousness or the
consciousness field is born. It’s not born here. That is the raw material going in.
We can see—this is now a familiar illustration for students in Design for
understanding simply the terminology we use in looking at the infrastructure or the
structure below the line, the themes of color and tone and base that are there in the
calculation of every chart and in all aspects—the neutrino stream is hitting that
crystal of consciousness. Remember we are endowed with two crystals of
consciousness—Personality, where the by-product is mental cognition, and the
Design, where the by-product is the vehicle’s cognition system. This entry point or
this entry frequency where the neutrino meets the crystal, this is what is called base.
It is within the crystal that the real miracle—whatever word you want to use, you
could use all kinds of words, where the fantastic takes place, I think that’s a better
word. It’s right here inside because every crystal is different, like snowflakes. Every
single crystal is different. We are different from each other in the most essential way
because we filter consciousness differently.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
2
LECTURE ONE
Colors I, 2 and 3
And it’s here within the crystal itself that the consciousness field is established. That
is, its cognitive parameter is established. The raw data has been converted into a
cognitive direction. We’ll look at those various directions. They’re sensory
directions. And that cognitive direction can be expressed in only one way. It’s the
great thing about a neutrino, you could build a wall that was 10 million light years
thick of lead. I mean you can’t imagine anything so thick, and it wouldn’t slow down
a neutrino. That neutrino is just going to keep on keeping on and it is this exit
frequency that carries the great mystery. Because it is this exit frequency if we add
it all up—because again, we tend to be homocentric and in being homocentric we get
lost in the arrogance of missing the obvious that there are millions of crystals of
consciousness in my garden, millions of crystals of consciousness in my garden.
One has to realize that in talking about the color consciousness field, we’re not
talking about exclusively what happens to this frequency when it is filtered through
us. No. One of the criteria for understanding where I am going to take you in these
two lectures is that everything that I am looking at is relative to the personality and
the personality only. In other words, I’m talking about that aspect in the traditional
sense, there has never been any dualistic separation. The consciousness field was
always about mind and always about personality. And here within the context of
design, we can only truly see the consciousness field when we exclude the human
personality.
One of the things that we know at the deepest level of work in Human Design is that
the last thing to be healed, if it is to be healed, is the potential of the personality. It
is far more difficult to awaken a mind than it is to awaken a body in a life, because a
body in a life can be awake and the mind can still struggle with the dilemmas of
mind and the not-self.
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
3
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
The Color Consciousness Field
So I want you to grasp that we are looking at the color consciousness field. It is
vast. It is the by-product of all of the neutrinos going through all the crystals of
consciousness on this planet and there are so many that it is beyond the imagination
to even imagine the number. It is the blades of grass and bees and flies and it goes
on and on and on. All the cells of all the living things on this planet are all endowed
with crystals of consciousness.
Of course, we know that there is this vast dilemma within the personality of the
human being and the dilemma is something that we call transference. And it is
because of transference that no one, except those students of mine that I work with
on this subject, no one other than that truly has a grasp of what color is. The
average newcomer to Human Design who is looking at the front page of Jovian sees
the Just Now Chart and the motivation theme for the moment. They see that theme,
let’s say it’s a 1st color —fear and they assume that’s what everybody will deal with
as a motivational input. In fact, it has nothing to do with that at all.
Human beings are in transference. And because the personality is in transference,
everything about the nature of the consciousness field as it moves through humanity
is distorted. It is distorted by the not-self mind. It is distorted by the fact that the
frequency of the individual is not correct and therefore the harmonic distortion takes
place. Rather than the color releasing as a 1, by the time it gets over into the
human being, it’s transferred and becomes a 4. If we took all of the consciousness
potential of humanity as it is today and we looked at it we would see a consciousness
that is in transference and has nothing to do with what the consciousness field is.
Nothing; I mean nothing. It’s something to really grasp.
I grew up with a real love of poetry. I can remember going through particularly 18th
and early 19th century poetry. How many of these poets—and of course the vast
majority of the poetry was in English and most of it originated in England—shared
this incredible meditation on the splendor of nature, this perfection, and this
inspiration of what nature is. The consciousness field, the way it works through life
on the planet with the exclusion of humans, taking humans out of the mix, is that
when this neutrino ocean is penetrating the universal crystals that are part of all the
life forms on the planet, there is no distortion. There isn’t. None of those forms of
life are endowed with a neo-cortex. None of them are confronted with the dilemmas
of human personality, none of them. They are unfettered and pure, what we like to
call nature.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
4
LECTURE ONE
Colors I, 2 and 3
The Mandala of All Forms Other than Humans
This is a very, very fascinating mandala. If you look into the bodygraph, what you’re
seeing in the bodygraph is the combination of all the other forms of life other than
human. That is, mammals with their 15 gates, the birds and reptiles and fish and
insects, the single cell, the inanimate,
all of the possibilities of all of the other
forms are here in this mandala. If you
want to understand the consciousness
field and the perfection of the
consciousness field, the first thing to
recognize is that it only operates
unfettered, in that sense, through these
particular aspects. These particular
aspects are more aligned to the
consciousness field. It’s interesting to
think about them as aspects within
yourself, within somebody’s design,
within somebody else’s design,
whatever the case may be. Within
these gates lies the sensitivity to the
consciousness field in its pure state. It doesn’t mean, by the way, that any of that is
necessarily experienced. The not-self is deeply, deeply dense.
Something else to recognize about the consciousness field which is revealed by the
mechanics, is that it is deeply primitive. I drew this image the first time in 1994
when I was preparing my first analytical book from The Book of Letters and
obviously, there is this very powerful integration that’s a part of this. The
consciousness field is something that in essence is very, very primitive.
Look at the evolution of what we call intelligence, the evolution of intelligence
beginning with the spleen, then evolving to the mind system. Ultimately what we are
moving towards in terms of the mutation that is taking place in the codon of
Histidine, the 55th gate and the 49th gate, is we’re having this incredible mutation in
the solar plexus system and this new quality of consciousness about to emerge.
The Consciousness Field is Not Human
But the consciousness field is not human. That’s perhaps the most interesting thing,
it is not human at all. It is neither related to mind or to solar plexus, and it is very
much oriented to primary survival. It is also the perfection of nature, because there
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
5
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
is no interference, there is no mind to interfere. And of course, this is the great
dilemma in humanity and the source of transference in human beings.
There is this assumption, and assumption is the mother of all screw-ups, there are
these assumptions about what the consciousness field carries. We’re going to see.
Because what the consciousness field carries is color and color is motivation. The
vast majority of the consciousness field is a survival motivation in which living out
the perfection of each color is a natural order. Our dilemma, our imperfection is that
when we are not properly motivated that’s the moment when we lose our connection
to our uniqueness and our mind remains part of the homogenized dilemma.
By the way, it isn’t that the goal of the program is not to have humans resonate to
the consciousness field. I guess that’s a black joke. But the program is not about
human beings resonating to their true color. It isn’t. The program survives by the
not-self. The program survives through transference. And everything that we
understand about color, we only understand within the context as human beings in
terms of the values as transference.
You have somebody who is born with a 1st color personality. But they never get to
live out the purity of that 1st color, the purity that is lived out by any 1st color cell,
fish, bird; they don’t. So they will never know what it is. What they live out is the
transference. And the 1, as in all harmonics, is going to transfer to the 4, and the 4
is need. But, humanity has a problem. And the problem is that the moment that
transference takes place, the being over here is cut off from the cognition over here.
So, it means when one goes from being a 1 where one could have access to the
necessary cognition, that 1 lives out being a 4, gets cut off from that cognition and
that 4 only carries with it a very, very crude motivation.
When you think of somebody being motivated by need, you don’t have a nice
impression, do you? But that isn’t what the 4 is about. It isn’t. It’s only the value it
has when there is no intelligence to guide it. This is the dilemma. Nature, the life
force of the planet, does not have this dilemma. There is no transference. But the
program survives by it. Look at the world we live in.
Think about all the people, all the 1’s that want to fix their lives, change their lives,
find the truth, be enlightened and on and on and on, there are tens of millions of
them. They’re all in transference. They’re not guided by what is correct. They are
not motivated correctly. They do not have the intelligence. And yet, this is how the
program survives. It’s spooky. This is how humanity stays homogenized because
there is no unique intelligence behind the motivation; there isn’t. There is a
homogenized flavor and nothing else.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
6
LECTURE ONE
Colors I, 2 and 3
Think about one of the things that I repeat endlessly. The only thing that really
matters is that you honor your Strategy and Authority because that is the one thing
that allows you to break the covenant with the program. It finally gives you the
opportunity to separate yourself from the false dominion of your mind. In Human
Design when you’re operating correctly from the physical plane, by giving authority
over to your vehicle, you automatically gain the advantage of the cognition
underneath. The great challenge in the mental part of Human Design is to get
human beings to truly differentiate and to differentiate from the personality
perspective, which means that the personality can no longer be in transference. It
allows us to resonate to the consciousness field.
In essence, it goes back to our simplest and most basic roots, because to be your
own authority literally means that you are the only thing that is your security, your
protection. It is the very power of your uniqueness that gives you the decision
making capacity to be able to protect yourself, to be able to survive.
So, what is the consciousness field, and how different is it from the domain of
transference? What we’re going to look at today is the first three colors. Just to
take you briefly through this mapping, you can see that the colors here are running
through the center: The 1st color Fear, the 2nd color Hope, the 3rd color Desire. Of
course, you can see that this is divided into what is left and what is right, and left
and right has to do with the cognition underneath. It has to do with the impact of
the tone.
The 1st Color: Fear
When we’re looking at this, let’s begin with Fear, the
1st color. Let’s think about this 1st color in the way it
operates in nature, the way it operates in nature
without transference; in other words, without the
mind stepping in to make the decisions. You have to
grasp something about how distorting the not-self
mind is. Not only does it cut you off from the
cognition that will give you the awareness that you
need, but it aligns you to all of those fears that are
there in the openness of your design. It feeds off
your openness. It distorts all of this.
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
7
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
It leads to one out of every six human beings who is going to carry a 1st color
personality is going to be driven in this life by mindless needing. That’s the
transference. And it doesn’t matter what it is, what profile, and what gate;
underneath it will be this need that lacks
intelligence. It will lack intelligence. It
means it will not be able to discern.
There is no specific to it. There is just
this uncomfortable neediness, which of
course, being part of a not-self being, is
going to add to the stress and the
dilemmas of the mind to try to get rid of
it, to try to get rid of that. Well, it can’t.
It can’t be satisfied.
Obviously, that mindless need as a
motivation isn’t going to take somebody
intellectually where they should be. And
given that it’s not-self, the mind is given
authority to act. There you are with
your open this and your open that, you’ve got an open ego and you’ve got an open
root, you’re in a hurry to prove that you’re worthy. And there you are with this deep
neediness underneath. And oh boy is your mind going to have a holiday, just driving
you to make decisions based on proving in a hurry that you’re worthy because this is
what you need. And you say yes to any damn thing to try to prove it, and of course,
it doesn’t work. It doesn’t stop it from being your motivation. It makes it even
more obsessive. That’s not the consciousness field. That’s humanity, not-self
humanity. It’s the whole that’s greater than the sum of the parts of us and it’s not-
self and distorted.
What is this 1st color fear? Think about, first of all, somebody who is a 4th color.
You’re born with a 4th color personality, and of course you’re not-self so you don’t
live out what the true need brings with cognitive resources. No, you live out fear.
And what does it look like? Fear is a motivation, always looking over your shoulder,
always insecure, always uncomfortable, always on edge. That’s not what this is
about.
The most wonderful thing to understand about fear is that fear is the mother of
intelligence. It’s the mother of intelligence. Without fear there is no intelligence.
And you cannot be a bio-form without dealing with fear. You must deal with the
circumstances of your environment. Everything about being genetic is about
survival. And to be motivated by this fear is not to be afraid of things; but, it is a
driving force to penetrate them. This is the anti-ignorant motivation.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
8
LECTURE ONE
Colors I, 2 and 3
These themes, the keynotes—the fear, the hope, the desire—they’re written for the
way in which they are experienced by the not-self, because this is the way it works.
This is the not-self. Those 4th color people who transfer to the 1, afraid of
everything; they’re even afraid to find out things, which is anathema to their true
motivation.
Remember that we’re talking about mind, because this is the personality. This is a
probing mind. Remember that it is a probing mind that is driven by a cognitive
source. It’s intelligent. It wants to penetrate the darkness. It wants to put light on
everything. It is driven to have no hidden corners. It’s beautiful.
Of course, this is what we see in nature. And obviously, given the biological
structure of the forms, the varying ways in which this operates, the more advanced
the species the more the 1st color is the power to explore and in essence to control
one’s environment, to be safe. It isn’t about simply blindly being afraid. That’s the
not-self.
So the consciousness field is purely intelligent. And it is intelligent about what
matters—the environment; in our case the world, the solar system, the galaxy, the
biverse. This is the driving motivation that drives all minds to cut through the
darkness. And this is not about fear.
The 2nd Color: Hope
The 2nd color is Hope. This transfers to the 5 in humans, so you have guilt,
unintelligent, mindless guilt. You can end up being guilty that the sun isn’t shining;
just guilt, and how uncomfortable it is. It’s
always so interesting when you tell
somebody who has a 5th color personality
that their motivation is guilt, boy are they
ever uncomfortable. They are so used to
blind, mindless hope. You know these
people; blind, mindless hope—everything is
going to be all right, everything is going to
work out.
They can end up being the great abdicators.
This is not what this is about. This isn’t
about blind faith. It isn’t about blind
anything. The dilemma is that the human personality doesn’t have access to its true
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
9
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
cognition, so it doesn’t gain access to the intelligence that it needs, the intelligence
that would imbue their motivation with what is correct.
If you come into the world and you’re a 2nd color being and you live it, it does not
mean you are blindly hopeful at all. As a matter of fact, you’re not. You’re quite the
opposite. But you know precisely what to be hopeful about. In other words, you
know precisely what not to interfere with, precisely. It’s the sitting by the river, but
it’s sitting by the river not for everything, just for those very, very special things.
And how does it know? It has the cognition. It is what will be there.
And of course, this is the consciousness field. There is no such thing as blind hope in
the consciousness field. But everything knows what to wait for. Oh, it does.
Humans have lost that gift. I don’t even think it was lost; I don’t think they’ve ever
had it. How beautiful that is. Look at nature. We all have these moments of
wonder. I live in a richly natural environment. It’s all a waiting game out there and
there’s no distortion of that.
We all marvel at nature’s timings. We all marvel at the way all of that works. We’ll
have that. All our 2nd color people are living out a 5th color process, a 5th color
transferred process which means that they’re trying to fix this and fix that, making
people uncomfortable, making themselves uncomfortable in the process. And they
don’t know what to fix or what to condition, because they don’t have the cognitive
depth that is there underneath, it’s not there.
The real hope is in the garden. It’s in the natural world. There is the beauty. You
can see it there, its perfection, and its readiness. You cannot just sit by the river;
it’s not a passive thing. It isn’t. You have to be attentive. You know that you’re
there to wait by the river, but you don’t know how long you’re going to wait—a
moment, a lifetime. You must never lose your attention; it’s quite a thing, to sit by
the river.
Yet, for us it’s quite a thing because we contemplate what that would mean, instead
of living it as a natural process. Think about all the neutrinos; wow, there’s a lot of
them, trillions and trillions and trillions, endless numbers penetrating second by
second by second, the endless trillions of crystals. There’s the consciousness field.
And there, there is no dilemma.
It’s my long standing joke about the neo-cortex. It’s trouble, no? It’s the neo-
cortex that separated us from the natural world. There are all these humans that
like to remind everybody that we’re part of the natural world, at least they think
we’re part of the natural world. It’s actually not true at all. We are so incredibly
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
10
LECTURE ONE
Colors I, 2 and 3
unnatural. That is, not-self humanity is unnatural. We do not resonate to the
consciousness field. We do not, because we have a mind and it gets in the way.
Our forms are so deeply connected—after all, what is mind? It is the by-product of
this neo-cortex. Our form is a long evolutionary track, and it’s the form that so
easily can move into correctness when the form rules—Strategy and Authority. But
this mind, how unnatural it is, because the moment that the mind wants to act is the
moment that it is unnatural. It’s such a thing to grasp. The moment that mind
wants to act, it leaves the natural world behind.
By the way, this is what the program wanted. How else could we sit at the top of the
food chain, top of the heap, the great killer monkeys? How else could we get there?
We didn’t get there by resonating to the consciousness field. We don’t get there by
operating through our natural, physical intelligence, no, no, no. We get there
through transference. Transference brings all the pain. That’s the program.
The 3rd Color: Desire
You come into the world with a 3rd color and you automatically transfer and you’re a
6th color and the 6th color is Innocence. Now, of course, it’s not true innocence. It
can’t be. It doesn’t operate through any
cognitive resource. It’s false innocence.
It’s one of those wonderful lines in the
I’Ching—false innocence betrayed by
actions—a false innocence constantly
betrayed by its actions.
Those 6 beings, and oh boy are there a lot
of them, the 6th color personality includes
every single transitional profile. The 1/4’s,
the 2/5’s, the 3/6’s, the 4/1’s, the 5/2’s,
the 6/3’s all automatically have a 6th color
personality. As well as the fact that the 6th
color personality can show up in any other profile. It means that so many human
beings, so many of them, are transferred to desire; blind desire, blind mindless
desire, desire without cognition, desire without intelligence. Oh, boy, trouble.
Think about those transitional profiles; they’re chains. They link; the 1/4 links the
1/3 to the 2/4; they’re chains. They’re minor in population. You can see that in the
global survey. They are a small percentage compared to what’s on either side;
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
11
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
they’re the bridge. And they bridge the way information moves through the profile
chain from the 1/3 ultimately to the 6/3 and around again.
It means that this is the way the whole information field, the whole human genetic
information field moves through these bridging profiles. And they’re all naturally
endowed with a 6th color that they do not, in fact, live. So we have all of these
bridges dominated by desire. Where innocence is beyond objective, desire is deeply
subjective. There is all this inherent fundamental conditioning that’s taking place
within the chain itself. Let alone what it’s doing to individuals. Imagine what that is.
Think about all the false leaders we have, these people who want to lead, who have
this desire to be leaders. Boy are we ever getting a mess out of that. They’re after
all, supposed to be innocent, not involved—observer/observed, beyond.
So you come into the world with a 3rd color and you immediately transfer to that 6
and you don’t want to be involved. Oh, I know that movie so well, I’m a 3. And of
course, when you’re not-self, it just grabs you. I’m somebody who’s unemotional,
my not-self would jump on that and say, look, you want to avoid this confrontation
and you’re going to back away from this, you don’t have to be involved. That’s
transference, and unnatural.
Human Design is here to celebrate the unique. That’s what is natural for a human
being. We are all born with a predisposition, a predetermination to be a potential to
be unique. It’s there in every design, the evidence is there. And of course, the
moment that we can live that uniqueness is the moment that we resonate to the
natural world. We resonate and become one with the consciousness field with an
advantage, by the way, that mentally we can observe it, see it. We can see it
without purpose or motivation, without reason, is a better word. Just to see.
So desire, you come in with a 3rd color; think about it within its pure context. This is
a lock. Desire is there to grab you. It is a very, very powerful focused motivation.
It’s not about desiring this and that. It’s not about blind desire at all. It’s simply
about a motivation that locks you into things. It locks you in. And in that process
you will move through its dynamic leader/follower, follower/leader, whichever way it
goes depending on the way in which your consciousness is intended to operate.
One of the dilemmas of humanity is that we have left mindedness and right
mindedness which deeply, deeply is a challenge to actually be able to live in
resonance with a consciousness field. You look at nature, the 3rd color in nature is
the lock; they’re locked in. In higher life forms you see them as alphas. You see
them in their focus. They are so intense that others are simply following. It’s just
there. It is part of nature.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
12
LECTURE ONE
Colors I, 2 and 3
Color consciousness in its purest form can be seen literally in the beauty of life on
this planet. I was mentioning in my morning class today, I keep a fish pond and
there are fish and frogs and birds that visit regularly. When you watch the way all of
that works, the way the relationship of the life forms work in basically a small
environment, the interplay of the various forces involved in all of that, the plant life
and all of those things, there is just a beauty in it. It is my silence place. I go out to
the pond every day and I spend about an hour just sitting there. And there is this
quiet perfection of each thing being itself. That’s what one sees in nature, each
thing being itself. It has no possibility to be anything else.
The Challenge of the Evolution of Cognition
Of course, this is our dilemma. We have the possibility to be not-self, it is the way
we are. This is our great challenge. The challenge ultimately of evolution of
cognition is to get to this place where it is natural for us to be unnatural. We have
this mind that emerges as this great distortion. And yet, it is part of the
development of self-reflected consciousness that we go through such a stage. And
we do live in a time where we have the tools to break from this.
One of the most important things that I teach is color transfer analysis, to be able to
help somebody understand that the pressure on their personality to transfer is
imposed on them by the world they live in. And only when the mind is freed from
decision making, only when the mind can begin to release itself from the burden of
decision making can it open itself up to the possibility of seeing, grasping.
We don’t really understand the power of the unique outer authority of mind and how
that can only emerge through cognition. When you’re in transference, your
personality, your personality profile has no access to your cognition underneath, its
sensory focus, its quality, and its gift. And the gifts are there. Each and every one
of us has this unique aspect that is the core of our cognitive potential. None of this
is about providing the mind with what it needs in order to straighten out its life or
make it better or fix its relationships or all this nonsense. That’s just putting mind to
work again in running your life. No, it’s not about that. You’re here to be motivated
to see as yourself—to see.
It’s only in that seeing that there is the possibility that you can ultimately share,
empower, whatever language you want to use, share that outer authority with the
other. Oh, it’s a very beautiful thing to watch; just to watch. You have to free the
mind. You do that by following Strategy and Authority. In Strategy and Authority
you begin the process of reconnecting to the consciousness field and to its purity and
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
13
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
its beauty. These motivations are not intended to be negative terms. We
experience them in the not-self only as negative forces, and they are not.
You can see that in the world around you. You can see that in nature. It’s so clear.
There is this perfection of it-ness in nature. I love to talk about it-ness. It is
something that each unique being discovers, you discover it. You can only discover
it as yourself, to stand alone, because all things do and they don’t think about it.
There is no choice. We are all in a vast program. And the depth of consciousness on
this plane is absolutely fantastic. It’s so profound. The distortion does not come
from nature. The distortion in the consciousness field is from us.
I have no illusions about the healing of the human aspect of the consciousness field,
because after all it is our end game and nothing is to be resolved in that. But it also
opens up this wonderful opportunity for some, to be able to live the duality and the
specialness of what it is to be us. And at the same time, to be able to have a
complete and fulfilled place within the whole, to be one with the world around you is
to be one with its frequency. There is so much to be taken in from the world around
you when you are correct, so much that you cannot take in or experience when
you’re not correct.
You cannot in any way eliminate personality transference by wanting to. You can’t.
It’s a long, arduous, dedicated process. It begins with the body. It begins with the
dedication to the body, allowing the body’s intelligence to realign your geometry, to
move you correctly, and in giving authority to your vehicle, to begin the healing of
your mind. That’s only the beginning of healing mind. You have to give it something
to do. Your mind is going to ramble on and on. The openness in you is always going
to be there. It’s always going to be leaning on your mind to get you to be what you
are not. The moment that you can free yourself from mental decision making, you
can begin to focus your mind. And one of the most important things to focus your
mind on is what your motivation is supposed to be. It is your connection to the
consciousness field and to nature.
Those of us that have the opportunity to live correctly finally have completed our
place in the natural chain, not by transcending it at all, but by embracing it. We can
totally embrace the natural world and still display all the gifts of our self-reflected
consciousness without interfering with our natural place. When you’re operating
according to your vehicle, you’re like any creature on this plane, perfectly aligned to
your geometry, your potential, your purpose.
It’s interesting to share that with you. I am so deeply aware of it.
~
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
14
Lecture Two
Colors 4, 5 and 6
Welcome to part two in our look at the
color consciousness field. Before I take
you on a look at the 4th, 5th and 6th
colors in the way in which they, in fact,
operate, there’s something really
important that I don’t think was really
stressed enough in the introduction last
week. I really want you to grasp this.
The Color Consciousness Field: The Natural World
This color consciousness field that I’m talking about is the sum total of crystal
consciousness on this planet minus what it is to be human. In other words, it is the
natural world, and it is the consciousness field that is a by-product of the existence
of the natural world.
It is pure in the sense that not having a neo-cortex in any of the possibilities without
the presence of self-reflected consciousness, all forms simply vibrate within the
context of the program. And that the very uniqueness of those forms is a
uniqueness that does not stray from, or challenge the program, but in fact, is simply
the embodiment of an ongoing turning wheel of imprints.
But it’s something to grasp, that when I talk about the way in which the
consciousness field emerges out of the natural order, we also have to see that that
natural order is not something that is fixed. It isn’t. Look at this bodygraph. When
you’re looking at this bodygraph you’re looking at all the possible activations from
the inanimate, that 25th gate over there, to the complexity of what it is to be
mammalian which is quite a complexity, along with all the other variations in
between. Things like the single cell and the bird business and the plants and the
insects and all the various possibilities that are there in what are called the design of
forms.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
15
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
When you think about it, after all these are, if you take it altogether, looking at this
bodygraph, and again you’re looking at the natural world in this bodygraph, there is
no guarantee that at any given moment all of this configuration is active.
The Disappearance of Bees
It’s interesting, over the last four or five months, there has been quite a deep
concern and panic amongst many, many people in the agribusiness because of the
sudden disappearance of hundreds of millions of bees. I don’t know if any of you are
aware of this or have seen this in the news, but it is an extraordinary phenomenon.
Basically, most of the agribusiness, at least in terms of fruits and berries and all of
that are dependent on the pollination of the crops. There are huge industrial bee
concerns that raise bees and literally transport them to all kinds of places in order to
be able to pollinate the plant life.
Over the last six months these hives they set up in these various locations, all of a
sudden they’re empty, literally empty. And they don’t know where the bees went.
Hundreds of millions of bees have disappeared. There is some speculation, as a
matter of fact, here in Spain, Spanish scientists who first noticed this, by the way,
have been some of the leading spokespeople about this. Their research indicates
that it’s some kind of a fungus.
Pluto’s Transits
But anyway, my point of all of this was an email I got the other day from somebody
who was curious about the fact that Pluto is in the 10th gate and I have had many,
many discussions about the influence of Pluto in the way it literally is changing the
whole life process. We’re living in a Pluto interregnum. It is Pluto that is in charge
of these very unusual processes that we’re going through as we move towards 2027,
which will be the close of that Pluto interregnum.
I have paid a great deal of attention to the transits of Pluto as they affect the natural
world, because my assumption is that these transits bring with it all kinds of things
that ultimately are going to be, in a sense, negative for humanity. If one grasps the
essential concept behind understanding the advent of the nine-centered being in
1781 that we are moving towards an evolutionary transition and that something new
is going to emerge, it is something clearly to understand that the natural world is
going to then be oriented towards those things that are going to emerge, rather than
being oriented towards what is fading away.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
16
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
In other words, the way in which the program operates, which is an universal
imprint, that the program is designed to support whatever the emerging force is
going to be. Given that Pluto is in control of this interregnum, the Pluto transits that
affect the natural world are something that is deeply, deeply significant.
So, for example, in the answer to that particular email I indicated that the real
transition in the natural world began in 2002. It began in 2002 when Pluto entered
into the 5th gate. And of course, the 5th gate is a gate of enormous
consequence in the natural world. After all, everything
is built on the 15/5, all life. And of course, in
understanding that all life is built on this,
every single form, one way or another, that
is, all the living forms have a direct
relationship to the 15/5. They either
all carry the 15/5 or in the case of plants
there is only the 15 with the opening to
the 5.
Nonetheless, this is the center, if you will,
of the natural world. The moment that Pluto
stepped into the 5th gate in 2002 it wasn’t simply
impacting the plant world, which it would do with great
affect, but it was also going to impact many, many different forms, beginning with
things like the insect, as an example.
So, as we move along in the wheel, one of the things to see, for example, when
Pluto entered into the 26 which was in 2003, I began to talk about the coming of bird
flu. The 26th gate is the gate that has its direct relationship, that is, it is the cross-
speciel gate to the design of birds and fish and reptiles. Over the many, many
different lectures and comments that I made about that particular transit, I pointed
out that one of the things to recognize was that not only were fowl going to be
affected by this transit, but it was going to affect marine life. It is interesting to note
that only recently there is prognostication, that literally the sea is going dry and the
fishing of the sea is no longer sustainable.
We had a bit of an interregnum when Pluto was in the 11 and that is very specific to
the way in which that particular Plutonic generation is going to deal with things from
the mental plane. Then we had the step where we are now with Pluto in the 10th
gate. And of course, Pluto in the 10th gate is directly impacting many things,
including in this case, insects, as an example.
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
17
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
What I’m trying to get across to you is that though the consciousness field moves
very purely through the natural world, in other words, there is no transference that
is taking place. The frequency that is initiated by the neutrino going through the
crystals of consciousness of the natural world is not suffering the possibility that the
illusionary frequency is going to be unstable and thus they are not going to be able
to access their cognition. They’re very different than we are, obviously. So it means
that the motivational field as we understand it is moving purely through the natural
world.
What’s changing is what is being highlighted at any given moment. The fact that we
now have Pluto in the 10th gate means that the consciousness field of the natural
world is being deeply impacted by Pluto. So what we get to see about the natural
world is something that is sort of delightful to think about, in a way. You see, the
natural world, in that sense, is kind of like the godhead. And of course, all of our
earliest godheads were developed out of the animal world, that is, developed out the
natural world and exalted to some kind of the bull god and the bear god and the
tiger god and whatever the case may be, the falcon god. The natural world has its
influence, but its influence isn’t the altering of the motivation through transference,
the impact of the natural world is to the highly specialized programming of the
planets when they go through this matrix.
Again, think of the saturation field that we’re dealing with. When you compare the
crystals of consciousness of all living things, with the exception of humanity, and you
compare humanity against all of that and you think about the neutrino ocean and the
filtering of consciousness, my goodness, the natural world is an extraordinary thing.
It’s an extraordinary thing and it’s truly the place where we can meet the gods, and I
mean the planets. The planets really dominate the natural world in a way that we
don’t quite understand. They’re the mechanism that moves the natural world, this
clicking in of certain gates at certain times affecting certain forms, sometimes all of
them, sometimes some of them, sometimes just one. This is something that is really
fascinating to see. The whole background consciousness field is deeply manipulated
by the planetary forces; I mean, deeply manipulated by those forces.
The setting of what it is to live in the maya, this is our maya, this setting is
constructed through all of these forms. So when you’re looking at transits, this is a
fun illustration to keep handy every once in a while. And when you’re looking at
activations that are there in the transit field, look at the natural world. See where
this information, where it is going to have, how it is going to have its impact. And
begin to understand that as the program moves us towards 2027, everything that we
understand about this natural world is changing. And it’s being driven by Pluto.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
18
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
And now, of course, with Pluto in the 10 probably along with the 5, these two gates
have an enormous impact. After all, the 10th gate is the gate of behavior. Changing
behavior in the way the natural world is going to operate. And that change in
behavior is something that is going to be a disadvantage to the human population,
because it is not a change of behavior that is there to support the human process.
So it’s something to keep an eye on.
The 4th Color: Need
This word, Need, we’re talking about a motivation, and obviously the need
motivation that we understand, that is, the way in which transference brings the
distortion or the harmonic distortion, is that those beings we recognize as being
driven by their neediness, are invariable 1st color beings. This is the natural
transference of the 1st color, this fear which is in fact simply the drive, the motivation
to master one’s environment, to be in
charge of one’s environment, to know
how to take advantage of one’s
environment, to make sense out of it,
whatever the case may be.
It’s something so essential to the natural
world that we do not understand this
neediness because of the transference.
We don’t. We get this sense of
weakness when we think of it. We get a
sense of discomfort with personalities
that display too much need. It’s
uncomfortable, because it’s not need as
it is intended to be a motivating force. It
is without the cognition underneath.
The personality is really in trouble when it’s trying to make decisions, this we know.
And it distorts everything. But the moment that the personality stops making
decisions in the life is when it begins to gain access to its cognitive potential, its real
intelligence. And with that intelligence comes the real value of what that need is all
about.
You see, most human beings have absolutely no idea what they really need; it’s true.
They have absolutely no idea. This is the not-self. It doesn’t know what it needs.
So you have the blind neediness. You see the themes on either side, the master and
the novice, and remember I will deconstruct novice for you, we get that confused.
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
19
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
This need is all about knowing or understanding or making sense of—I try to make
sure that I don’t distort what I am saying here, so you have all of the variables,
knowing precisely what one needs. That’s all.
It’s not about neediness. It isn’t. This is the great gift of the master. You go to the
master and you say to the master, Master, I’ve got this whatever. And the master
tells you exactly, if it’s a good master,
what you need to hear. It may not be
the truth; it’s about what you need to
hear. Oh, this is a great gift, this
motivation, this drive cognitively to
recognize precisely what’s needed. It’s
not about doing anything about it, it’s
seeing; seeing it.
And how different the left and the right,
to know precisely what is necessary for
the left means it’s really easy to develop
a strategy to get there. Knowing
precisely what is necessary is something
that the novice does not need to ponder.
It needs no strategy. It is its gift always
to know what is necessary. It simply has to wait. It has to wait as all receptives do
for that possibility, that opportunity to be able to express as outer authority what is
necessary.
You see, such a motivation cuts away all the chafe. Such a motivation just burrows
its way through; no bullshit, no loose ends. This is not the blind neediness of the
helpless victim. Don’t be confused by the distortion of what is human and give false
values to these terms. Everything about this work, everything about correctness is
to be able to live the purity of one’s motivation. It is a gift to know what is
necessary, what is needed.
All of this feeds outer authority. This is what the personality is all about. And you
can see that in the natural world, this is an obvious. All those creatures, what they
need is what they pursue. It’s there in them. There is no confusion, there is no
transference, and there is no distortion. There is no wasted energy. There is no, “I
thought I needed this. I thought I needed you,” and on and on.
It’s so interesting, when you see this just as a pure force in nature, how obvious it is.
Every creature knows what’s necessary. It’s just there; there’s nothing to get in the
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
20
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
way. They’re just perfectly vibrating in the program. We were once like that, long,
long, long ago.
The 5th Color: Guilt
When we get to the 5 we get to this word—Guilt—that makes people feel
uncomfortable. Guilt makes people feel uncomfortable. I sort of like this binary—
guilt and innocence—it looks like we’re going to court. Well, we’re not. We don’t
know what this guilt is any more than
we know what the need was. We get
these 2nd color beings who are supposed
to be cognitively hopeful, that is,
knowing what to wait for. And instead
what we get is the internal fixers who
can’t wait for anything. They need to fix
everything, all confused, make a mess
out of life, and miss the boat all the
time.
This 5, I guess in so many ways this is
kind of like the progress motivation. “It
can only get better” kind of motivation.
“We can’t allow it to get worse” kind of
motivation. The thing about it is I would
assume that in the natural world this flourishes in times of crisis, in times of shift and
change when the natural rules. You may know what you need as a deer, but if the
forest is on fire, well, it’s going to have to do something. It can’t just stand there
and burn.
There is a way in which all things evolve, in that sense, through this 5. And when it
is correct, it is the recognition of what can be fixed and who can fix it. Not
everything can be fixed, not everything deserves to be fixed. Not everything is
worth fixing. Oh, I know that. Not everybody can wake up. Not everybody can
surrender to the experiment. So you have to have a way of recognizing what can be
fixed and how it can be fixed. It can be very uncomfortable to be confronted with
somebody who is motivated to fix you. It can. It can be very uncomfortable to be
motivated to allow yourself to be fixed. It can. But it’s not frivolous and it’s not
pointless; it is absolutely essential, knowing what and knowing who can be fixed.
How do you fix a human being? Just speaking of the mind, as an example, how do
you fix it? As far as I know you fix it by humiliating it, sort of. That is, you fix it by
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
21
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
showing it the way in which it has been blindly manipulated, and then you can fix it.
Ultimately, the thing that needs to be fixed is mind. Everything else is fairly reliable.
But mind is really a problem.
So, it’s one of the things to see clearly when you’re dealing with these upper colors,
they have this transpersonal quality to them. It’s about the other as much as
anything else. That motivation to know what the other needs; well, that’s quite
something. That motivation to know what can help the other fix them; well, it can
be very powerful.
The thing about it is that this is about outer authority. This is not about the being
itself. It isn’t. Let’s say that you’re a 4 and your mind knows precisely what you
need, it’s not like your mind can tell you to go and get it. Your mind can see that
that’s what you need, but whether you get there or not is not up to your mind. It
can just see. It can tell somebody else. This is what outer authority is all about.
None of this awareness here is about turning the awareness into personal decision
making action. It isn’t. It’s not what the natural world does. It’s just filtering the
consciousness field.
And here it’s perfect; this gift of being able to see the other and know what’s the
matter and be ready to fix it. And it’s interesting, this thematic, conditioner/
conditioned. It’s obvious from the strategic point of view. The thing to understand
about the receptive condition, it’s not about them being the ones who are fixed. It’s
about understanding in order for them to fix the other, the other has to come to
them to bring out the conditioning, to bring out the fix. And we need it. We do.
The 6th Color: Innocence
It’s always difficult when you come to the 6 of anything.
It’s a transitional thing; it’s a transition theme always.
And of course, we know that in the human expression of
what it is to carry the 6 as a personality, we know that
this is driven by the 3, by the false or the blind, or the
ignorant Desire. But the 6 personality is something that is
very profound. It is a major concept for everyone in
Human Design to deal with. That is, we have transitional
profiles. And in the transitional profiles, that is, the 1/4, the 2/5, the 3/6, the 4/1,
the 5/2, and the 6/3, all have a 6th color personality and a 1st color design. They all
have it.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
22
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
It’s something to begin to grasp about the profile structure as a spiral and that these
transitional profiles are linking elements in this spiral, and all the linking elements
are intended to have precisely this same theme as a motivation. Think about the
transitional profile as a bridge and a bridge that is intended to be neutral; that is, no
toll—neutral. It just opens up the possibility of this and that meeting each other.
Yet, the moment you are in transference is the moment that there is an agenda
because this is blind desire. And the desire is the theme that is controlling the way
in which the information moves through
the profile chain—all these people with
transitional profiles, all of them with their
false desire motivating them; the
leader/follower syndrome, the blind
leader/follower; the leader who truly
doesn’t know to lead and the follower
who is following the wrong thing.
In nature I think we see in the natural
world the perfect expression of 6-ness.
It seems that way to me. It’s been a
privilege for me for such of my life to live
in really beautiful nature. It is something
to just take it in. I have this lovely fish
pond with very beautiful fish and frogs,
and the birds come by. There is a kind of perfection in the now-ness of everything.
It’s all so now.
It’s one of the things to grasp about the 6th color motivation. In a sense it’s very,
very selfish. Even that’s an understatement. It is about one being the whole world,
in a sense, that one is ultimately perfectly alone. Because it is a motivation just to
be. Not to be something, not to be anything, not to not be something or anything;
but, just the be-ness. This is an enormous step for the personality; it’s a huge step,
to allow the life to emerge without interference, without mental anguish, to simply
be in the process of the life being, nothing else.
The theme seems to be active and passive, that observer/observed. But it doesn’t
really fit, in a sense. In the natural world all you see is its existential perfection,
because this is what it is. There is no this or that; there is simply the it-ness of the
being. They may appear to be observers, they may seem to be observed, but they
are just being. It is a motivation to not, in a sense, be motivated. It’s the beauty of
the spiral. And it is the perfection of that harmonic shift from the locked in desire of
the leader and the follower to this non-motivated it-ness.
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
23
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
We do not understand innocence because we see it in the distortion of those that are
born with the 3rd color who play out this non-cognitive movie of not being involved
when in fact they’re always being involved. Oh, there is a perfection in this. It’s
what I see when I look at the natural world, more than anything else. After all,
we’re talking about ingredients, it’s all there. The 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, it’s all there. And
each aspect is part of the way in which the natural world purely functions, but as a
kind of coloring, if you pardon the pun, this existential quality is so profound.
The Key to the Mapping is the Integration System
Again, go back to our mapping here. And you see that the key in this mapping, truly
the key in this mapping is the integration system. It really is what this is all about.
This is a survival program which is very, very existential. It is very, very existential.
It’s all about the now. It’s all about the individual in the now. When you look at it,
there is an extraordinary amount of individuality compared to anything else. We
have two collective channels; we have one tribal channel and everything else is
individual.
So, the natural world expresses its uniqueness. Oh, yeah, we have the herding
instinct and the flocks and whatever. We have this similarity. But again, recognizing
underneath that these are all existential entities operating in this perfect now,
regardless of their fate, regardless of the condition of their lives, whether they’re
going to be eaten by the next creature and so forth and so on. Just in terms of what
innocence is really all about, to get a sense of it.
Innocence: No Longer Being Caught in Comparison
It’s one of these things to puzzle over in terms of the 6th line beings and their off-
the-roof stage, this transcendence beyond observer/observed. What it really means
is that one is no longer caught in comparison. It’s what it’s about. It’s what this
innocence is all about, no longer being caught in comparison. There is no this or
that, per se. It’s not a concern unless it has to be. After all, we are all tied to the
rules of survival.
This consciousness field, think about the unbelievable number of neutrinos, the
density of this vast, vast, vast neutrino ocean, and I mean, it’s an incredible ocean.
In all the life on the planet, the unbelievable numbers of crystals of consciousness,
all of them are being motivated, in that sense, through this process, this deep
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
24
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
underlying thematic that is there defines our world and we came from it. In some
senses we return to it.
Next week in this time slot I start the DreamRave analysis program. Of course,
when a human being goes to sleep most of the matrix is shut down, with the
exception of the mammalian gates. Of course, it’s one of those things, how
interesting it is to begin to understand the programming that we share with the
natural world when we’re disconnected from our dysfunctional personality.
Transference
By the way, in speaking about transference, everybody knows, that is, those of you
that have been involved in the work that we have been doing in terms of color and
color information, know that color transfers. And of course, the 4th color is notorious
in the sense, particularly as personality, that it is always ready to transfer. That
“always ready to transfer” is determined on the frequency of the vehicle. If the
vehicle is correct it is extremely difficult in that sense. If the personality is correct,
the transference is something that is literally held at bay.
When we’re looking at the natural world we’re looking at ingrained correctness. In
other words, there is a very, very minimum of transference that takes place.
Remember that the personality crystals, even in the higher forms, do not have the
same advantages in that sense, and do not have the same possibilities. So, the
transference as it is experienced in the natural world is something that wouldn’t be
recognizable, though there is a level of it that is measurable. In humans, that’s an
entirely different story. We do have a frequency problem. We have developed a
binary consciousness that is active. Our evolutionary process and unfortunately, at
least from our perspective the dominant controlling mechanism, the personality,
has lead to the not-self and the world as we know it and so forth and so on.
The Mind and Motivation
I look at motivation and I see it as the deepest challenge that is there for anyone
who is trying to complete this holistic process of transformation and awakening. The
personality is always a dilemma. The mind and its deep connection with the vehicle
and its desire to maintain its control over the direction of the life, the fears that
human beings have, how easy it is for the mind to be able to jump in and start
taking control and making decisions in the life. In understanding the purity of the
natural world, it’s also there to inspire you. We, too, can return to the purity of that
consciousness field, but not at that level obviously, we are different. We are far
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
25
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
superior when it comes to the infrastructure mechanism for the potential of mental
cognition. We have these tremendous brains. We have an extraordinary possibility
of expression through the self-reflected process of mind.
Our dilemma is that mind has never been trained to see. Mind has only been trained
to be in control of a runaway vehicle. And of course, the frustration or the anger or
the disappointment or the bitterness that comes with being unable to hold onto this
runaway vehicle and control it. Oh, how important it is to work with your mind, to
exercise your mind, to recognize transference. For you to see clearly what is correct
for you, to see what motivation lies underneath and to not allow it to drift. And it
requires simply an attentive mind. Well “simply”, it’s a nice way of saying it. It’s
quite a thing to get your mind to just stop being concerned about your life, stop
insisting on wanting to make decisions.
The longer that I do this, I’ve tried so many ways to explain to people that when you
use your strategy, decision making seems so straightforward. And that the mind
cannot make the decision, it can’t. If your mind makes the decision you’ve lost your
cognition. You do not have the right motivation. You cannot be the being that
you’re intended to be. And you can only have that kind of attentiveness of mind
when it’s relaxed, when it can kick up its feet in the back seat of the limo, make
itself really comfy, have a nice, nice view and watch the movie. And watch the
movie driven in the way that it’s correct so that you see with the perspective that is
essential to the expression of your unique awareness. It is what we’re here for.
We’re not like the beast on the savanna. Oh yes, I can romanticize the beauty of the
natural order, the beauty of the consciousness field in the grasp of the planetary
program. But we’re much, much different than that. We are not here to herd and
homogenize, to all run blindly in the program together. That’s ok if you’re sheep in
the field. There is no other consequence. There is no awakening as a possibility.
But for us to follow our motivation is to follow the road to our uniqueness, our unique
mind and the beauty of our unique mind.
This is what it’s for. It’s for the seeing. And you see in context, the context that your
motivation gives you. And it is that very seeing, what you can grasp from that, that
you can express as outer authority, what gives you value to the other. There are so
many relationships in a life, but what do you remember? The ones that gave you
something, an inspiration, a truth, honesty, love, whatever, but that’s what we
remember. It’s what means something to us. We all crave outer authority, unique
outer authority, like children in a high school that pray that there will be a teacher
that can turn them on, because it’s important for us. We need outer authority. But
not just the old homogenized.
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
26
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
This is the time to break away from that, to express unique authority. You can only
do that when you are properly motivated, correctly motivated. It is only then that
you have access to the cognition underneath. It is only then that you can make
intelligent observations, and your intelligence, your gift, your specialization.
The Natural World Controlling Our Lives
When I look at the natural world, I look at a steamroller, this big steamroller just
rolling along. And it is not separate from us. There is no separation. I want you to
grasp that because the natural world operates in pure and perfect resonance to the
program, that the conditions of the world that we live in is controlled here. If
anything goes strange here, we end up having to deal with it. This is what is
controlling so much of what we call our lives.
We don’t think about it on a day-to-day basis, the trees that produce the oxygen,
and on and on and on. Aside from the obviousness of food and so forth and so on,
all of these, it’s endless, it’s changing. It is changing. It’s something for all of us to
be clear about, because our time of possibility, this beautiful moment where there is
this knowledge that is available can allow a human being to break from the
homogenized field and to find their true determination, to get to their differentiation,
to be a unique expression and to fulfill our place not in the natural order, but in the
unnatural order.
I’m somebody who promotes the abnormal. I am not here for normal—for normal
people, for the homogenized world. My son has a great t-shirt that says: Normal
people scare me. Yeah; no, this is about uniqueness. And it’s about seeing that the
consciousness field does not honor uniqueness. It doesn’t at all. It’s not concerned
with it in that sense. It’s just pushing the program forward. And what’s left for us is
to be very clear that in order for us to break from the bonds of the homogenized
world that we have to be in resonance with the consciousness field in our motivation
so that we can see ourselves within the world for what it is. This is the key.
The moment motivation is pure is the moment there is this alignment between the
consciousness and the world as a whole, and the relationship between the two. This
is what we have. This is where the potential of seeing lies. You can only see things
within their true context. It’s only when the motivation is correct that there is this
alignment of awareness to the totality of the maya and the ability to be able to see
things for what they are, relative, obviously, to the way of the seer, after all. We are
unique. We all have a different cross to bear, a purpose that is there to be
expressed, and an outer authority that is to be established. But it is this alignment
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
27
COLOR CONSCIOUSNESS
A Digital Book for Newcomers
of our underlying motivation to the motivation of the natural order that gives us the
perspective to truly see.
Well, I want to thank all of you for participating in all of this. It’s been a wonderful
opportunity to be able to look at this oddity. It’s a kind of irony, isn’t it, that the
natural world, which is in a sense blindly moved by the program, that in essence
cares so little for us, that only when we can resonate to its color consciousness field
can we see. It’s quite a thing.
Anyway, it’s nice to be able to share that with you. I want to make sure that all of
you realize how important it is to watch. Watch your minds, watch them and don’t
make decisions with them. That’s all. Whatever you do, just don’t make decisions
with them. Anyway, to all of you, do take care. Have a good one; bye for now.
~ The End of Color Consciousness ~
Color Consciousness is a program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
28
LECTURE TWO
Colors 4, 5 and 6
Color Consciousness is a certificate program of the (IHDS) International Human Design School
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2006 Jovian Archive Corporation
29