
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
Cover/Mau Cattaneo
Transcribed/Patricia Balentine
Layout and proofing/Becky Markley
Original lecture illustrations included.
The Rave BodyGraph™ and Rave Mandala™ are registered trademarks of Jovian Archive Corporation.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
ii
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................ v
Nine-Centered Awakening ............................................................... 1
A New Being and a New Way of Life .................................................... 1
The Accuracy of Human Design ........................................................ 2
Human Design Is the Science of Differentiation .................................. 2
Homo Sapien in Transitus ............................................................... 3
We Are a Binary Consciousness ....................................................... 5
Claim Your Own Authority ............................................................... 5
The Body Is the Life ....................................................................... 7
Trust in Your Vehicles Consciousness ................................................ 8
We Cannot Rely On Mind................................................................. 9
We Are Designed to Differentiate ..................................................... 9
The Center for Human Differentiation ............................................... 9
Strategy and Authority Guides You Correctly ................................... 10
Seven Years to Transform the Vehicle ............................................. 11
Mind Is Not the Enemy ................................................................. 12
Outer Authority of Mind ................................................................ 12
Enlightened Selfishness ................................................................ 13
Human Design: Learning to Make Decisions as Yourself .................... 14
The Four Transformations ............................................................. 15
A Guide to Achieving Difference ........................................................ 15
The Science of Differentiation ........................................................ 15
Transformation Begins with Strategy and Authority .......................... 16
We are a Binary Consciousness ...................................................... 16
Uniqueness ................................................................................. 17
The Body is the Life ...................................................................... 18
The Center for Human Differentiation ............................................. 18
The Chart: MMAI.......................................................................... 19
Establishing Your Unique Space ..................................................... 20
The First Transformation: Digestion................................................ 22
Enhances Cognitive Potential ......................................................... 23
Social Consequences .................................................................... 23
The Knowledge is for Children ....................................................... 24
The Second Transformation: Environment ....................................... 25
After 2027 the Theme will be Individual Survival.............................. 26
The Third Transformation: Perspective ............................................ 27
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
iii
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Fourth Transformation: Awareness ........................................... 28
We are Here to See ...................................................................... 29
The Not-Self .................................................................................. 30
What Stands between You and Transformation ................................... 30
Mind Stands in the Way ................................................................ 30
The Mind is Not for Decision Making ............................................... 31
Your Mind is Connected Directly to Your Openness ........................... 32
The Heart Center: Trying to Prove Yourself ..................................... 33
Strategy and Inner Authority ......................................................... 34
The Splenic Center: Holding on to What is not Good for You .............. 34
The Sacral Center: Not Knowing When Enough is Enough ................. 36
We are Here to Display Our Unique Truth ........................................ 37
The Head Center: Thinking About Things that do not Matter .............. 38
The Ajna Center: Pretending You are Certain ................................... 38
The G Center: Trying to Find Direction and Love .............................. 40
The Root Center: Always in a Hurry to be Free ................................ 41
The Solar Plexus Center: Avoiding Confrontation and Truth ............... 42
You Cannot Escape What You Are .................................................. 43
We are Passenger Consciousness ................................................... 43
The Throat Center: Trying to Attract Attention ................................. 44
Life is Built on One Decision at a Time ............................................ 44
What Stands between You and Transformation: Strategy and Authority
................................................................................................. 45
~
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
iv
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
INTRODUCTION
Lecture 1: Nine-Centered Awakening
A New Being and a New Way of Life
Human Design reveals more than any other malaise that humanity suffers
from clinging to an evolutionary past. Emerging in 1781, the nine-centered
being is revolutionarily different from its predecessor. Ra provides a
profound insight into the true nature and mechanics of our kind and the
transformation possible through Human Design.
This is a transcript of the first in a series of free lectures given by Ra Uru Hu
on May 4, 2008.
Lecture 2: The Four Transformations
A Guide to Achieving Difference
This is a transcript of the second in a series of free lectures given by Ra Uru
Hu on June 14, 2008 on the stages of Differentiation.
Lecture 3: The Not-Self
What Stands between You and Transformation
This is a transcript of the third in a series of free lectures given by Ra Uru
Hu on July 26, 2008.
~
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
v

Nine-Centered Awakening
A New Being and a New Way of Life
Hello everyone, welcome to all of you. We live in times that are deeply dynamic.
There is an enormous amount going on. It is one of the things that is so self-
evident the moment you go deep into the way in which, through Human Design,
you can see the nature of the program, the way we are programmed, and the way
the program moves. We‟re in an age that began in the very beginning of the 1960s
that really will close out in 2027. And it's an age of coming up with answers. We
can see everywhere around us that there has been an enormous movement
towards solving all kinds of puzzles and all kinds questions, whether those are
scientific or otherwise.
One of the phenomenon that is a by-product of that is what we refer to as a so-
called „new age.‟ That is, a sudden rekindling on a mass scale of an enormous
amount of interest in all kinds of systems, however one wants to label them.
Something I think just about everybody understands at this point is that regardless
of the system, regardless of the teacher, none of those things that exist out there
represent in any way an absolute. And it doesn't matter whether you're talking
about the physical well-being of a human being in which the solutions for our well-
being are generalized, or whether it is the nature of the way in which we operate in
terms of the mental plane and are conditioned to operate in very restricted ways.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
1
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Accuracy of Human Design
We are constantly being generalized. We look out at the vastness of what is
presented in this era as so-called „spiritual,‟ and the ways to spirituality, and all the
paths to spirituality. I've been in this movie a long time, and every path is
interesting, but it doesn't mean they bring you to transformation. They take you
on a journey that rarely belongs to you. We have a real dilemma in the nature of
the world we live in. It's something I recognized at the very beginning of my
process when I was first introducing Design in the late 1980s at its most primitive
level. What struck people, or at least the feedback that I got in that era, was the
uncanny accuracy.
I don't think you can experience this knowledge without the spooky feeling that the
thing that happens to you when you check the transit, or whatever the case may
be, there is this uncanny accuracy that is there. Human Design, at least in terms
of how it was given to me, is an absolute of the maya. It‟s an interesting
statement; it‟s an absolute of the maya. We live in an illusion. This is the way the
illusion works. And this uncanny accuracy that people who have experienced other
systems, whatever they may be, whether they are allopathic, psychological or new
agey, the reality is that, in one way or another, they are always generalized. This
is what makes Human Design so different.
Human Design Is the Science of Differentiation
Human Design has nothing to do with what's general, nothing, absolutely nothing.
Human Design is about differentiation. It is the science of differentiation. And it is
here to be able to align us to what is our unique nature, not what is our
generalized, postulated, conditioned nature. The dilemma in all of this is that it's
not that these systems, whatever they may be, whether they are scientific or
pseudoscientific, it‟s not like
they‟re to be blamed for
anything, or that they're at
fault, or they‟re limited, or
they're wrong, because that's
not what I'm saying. What
I'm saying is they're
connected to this [The Homo
Sapien graph on left side, a
larger image is below.]
I don‟t know if you recognize
that. It is a graphic
illustration of a seven-chakra
being. What is indicated here is Homo Sapien. That is an old model. One of the
most fascinating premises in Human Design is there was a mutation that took place
in 1781. That mutation, by the way, was very much the by-product of heat, but I
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
2
NINE CENTERED AWAKENING
A New Being and A New Way of Life
don‟t want to get too deeply into it, but it‟s everything we now call global
warming—all of that initiated at this point. In this transition, we went from being
this seven-centered being to being this nine-centered being [The Homo Sapien in
Transitus graph on the right.]
When you use the seven-centered system, let‟s say astrology, we all know there
are relative truths in it. Often those relative truths can be very profound. This is
not about astrology being bad, please understand. But there is a generalization to
half a billion Sagittarians. It‟s simply natural that there is going to be the
generalization. And it is something to really recognize about this inherent accuracy
that everybody gets to experience in Human Design. No matter at what level in the
knowledge you go, whether you go from the surface or you go deep, deep, deep
down into the system, what you get is this incredible accuracy, because this system
is for us. It is about us. It's a no-brainer, in that sense, that it gets it right when
the others cannot.
Homo Sapien in Transitus
The thing to understand about this marker is that it's those beings born after 1781
who are the mutated ones. These are the ones who are nine-centered beings, us,
a transitional form. You can see that here, Homo Sapiens in Transitus. We are a
transitional form. We are not something that is intended to be permanent. We‟re
not here to evolve into something else. We are a transition between a past, this
past from 1781, to a future that is beyond 2027, which has to do with an
evolutionary transition.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
3
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The thing to grasp is that beings who were born in the 1760s or the 1770s were
seven-centered beings who lived deep into the 19th century, into the 1860s, 70s,
and 80s. If you look back over the history of humanity, the 85,000 years that
Homo Sapiens ruled, and you add those who trickled into this zone, you have to
understand that just about everything we grasp, every religion that we have, every
philosophy we have, just about every fundamental understanding we have is based
on an extinct—and I say that with as much force as I can—an extinct form, the
seven-centered being.
I'm willing to say all hail. It's very nice. I can look at the past and the
accomplishments of the seven-centered being, and to some extent, I can tip my
hat. But it's not like I can rub my chest or pound it and say “This is me; this is not
me. This is not who I am.” The seven-centered being had a process, its
evolutionary process. Everything about life is about cognition. At the deepest
levels in Human Design when you begin with the tonal infrastructure, you begin to
see that everything in the nature of what we are is rooted in the potential
expression of cognition. The sophistication, or from our perspective, the lack of
sophistication of the seven-centered being, is that it was its dharma to actually
explore what we call the „mental plane.‟ They were locked to a uni-cognitive
expression. A uni-cognitive expression.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
4
NINE CENTERED AWAKENING
A New Being and A New Way of Life
We Are a Binary Consciousness
I remember the faces on those people when I first began to introduce the analysis
of somebody‟s design. They would look at those two sets of calculations and they
would say, “Why are there two, and why are they 88°, or 88 or 89 days apart?”
because this was totally alien to anything they had ever understood from any
system before. One of the most extraordinary transitions between the seven-
centered form and the nine-centered form is that we have a deeply unusual
cognitive potential. We are a binary consciousness. We are a binary consciousness
because Human Design has allowed us to see it.
It‟s like when an analyst introduces
you to your design and they point
to the Design side, the red side and
they say you don't have conscious
access to this, but you have to
know the red to meet it. The part
of what makes this accuracy so
profound is it‟s the system that is
here to reveal us. It has nothing to
do with the past. It has nothing to
do with mind. When mind, the
mental plane, first began to take its
hold on humanity, there was this
voice in old China, Lao Tzu, and he
said, “We‟ve got real trouble here.
This is mess. We are going to lose
the natural order. We are going to
lose our way. We are going to create that hell on Earth.” It wasn't like nobody
could see. But you can't stop the turning of the wheel; the wheel turns.
Claim Your Own Authority
85,000 years of mental gymnastics—mind is impressive, isn't it? And yet, think
about it. What we get to understand through Human Design is that the mind has
no way to control the life, the true life, your life. It can only pretend to control a
life it makes up. We live in a world built on lies, layers and layers and layers and
layers and layers and layers of lies until they all become normal. It's just lies. And
nobody knows any better. We‟re all stuck in the old model, in the old way of
healing. One of the most incredible things about being able to see the dynamic of
what it is to be in this form is to understand it gives us an opportunity that has
never existed before. It is an opportunity to claim our own authority.
Homo Sapiens gave its authority to its not-self mind. And through its not-self
mind, it gave authority to every conditioning force in its life. There is no freedom.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
5
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
There is no individuality. There is nothing but giving authority to anything and
anyone and everything, from God all the way down to your lover, your dog, and
your friend. This is what mind brings, because only through the mental plane, the
only way you can exist is being driven by fear that you cannot control your life, a
fear that drives you further and further and further away from what you can be
from this [nine-centered] into a pale, distorted imitation of this [seven-centered].
Seven-centered Nine-centered
FEAR
Look at the madness of the world we live in. It‟s mad and it passes for normal.
There are things Human Design reveals that shows so clearly that so many human
beings on this plane never get a chance. And they never get a chance because
they are being conditioned by the old model. The mind, everything up to the mind,
every decision up to the mind and every decision rooted in a fear that has to be
dealt with, every decision loses one deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper into
the conditioning, and always giving up your authority.
How afraid human beings are that they cannot stand on their own authority. How
ignorant they are that they do not know how to stand on their own authority, that
you give up your life, you give up your promise, your purpose, your potential, and
you throw it away for what—an illusion? When Human Design came into the world,
it came to announce the presence of this nine-centered transitional form. This is
what we are and we have to discover it. We have to nurture it, and not for some
generalized result, but so that each and every one of you can live out the
uniqueness that you have a right to. You have a right.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
6
NINE CENTERED AWAKENING
A New Being and A New Way of Life
Nine-Centered Homo Sapien in Transitus
The Body Is the Life
Human Design reveals that we are a binary consciousness. It‟s the only thing that
can make sense; we live in nothing but a duality. It is all „this and that.‟ We are
„this and that.‟ And because we are a binary consciousness, these different
cognitive forces have their own responsibilities, their own potential. It‟s what
Strategy and Authority brings you. It's how this incredible, uncanny accuracy
becomes legitimate transformation, because the moment you enter into the
experiment of your Strategy and Authority, you are embracing the life of a nine-
centered being.
We are not here to think our way through this life. We are not. We don't have to.
This is not what we are as a creature. We are a
different kind of creature. We are not here to be
ravaged by the fears of the mind. We are not here to
be distorted by the conditioning of the world around
us. We are here to be free to live by our own truth.
The truth begins with a basic recognition, the
fundamental recognition that the body is the life. It's the body. Your mind means
nothing without your brain; it‟s your body. This is the life. This is the living form
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
7
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
principle. What is revealed through this knowledge is that it has a consciousness
that guides it, a cognitive depth that allows it to be able to navigate correctly on
this plane. You can't navigate on this plane with your mind. You can‟t. It's all
traps. It‟s all „this and that.‟ And your mind doesn‟t know which way. It can‟t.
But your vehicle does.
Your body knows. This is the temple. This is the place. This is the great gift. We
all have this gift. We‟ve been endowed with these incredible vehicles. Human
beings don't pay any attention to how the body functions unless they get sick.
They don't know anything about the millions of neurons firing in order for the most
minor activity to take place, paying attention to all that, don't wonder about how it
actually manages to be what it is. This is a place of extraordinary power.
The change that took place in 1781 did more than bring the advent of this nine-
centered being. It brought a whole change in momentum, in the speed of things.
It brings us a very, very short window in which we can know, because there is a
plan, there is a map, and there is a manual. The most extraordinary thing about
this knowledge is that you can lay it out in front of you and it‟s all there.
Trust in Your Vehicles Consciousness
But you have to trust in the form consciousness, because if you don't let go, if you
don't allow your vehicle to run your life, you're lost in the old model. There will be
no transformation; there will be no awakening. It‟s not possible. You can‟t get the
there with your mind, all that stuff you think about, that you think may be
important, all that stuff you ponder about, the „this and that,‟ what you think you
could, might, should, would, and could do; the insanity of all of that.
I know the beauty of the mind. The mind is an incredible thing. I love it deeply.
But I only love it because I am at peace with this process of being a nine-centered
being, allowing my design, allowing my vehicle's consciousness to guide me, to free
me from the burden of the uselessness and stupidity of the mind trying to run the
life, what pain it brings. Each indecision, each lack of clarity, each moment of folly,
and the price is that everyone pays for them. The things you do because you think
you should. We‟re stuck in this world, in this model. It‟s not going to go away.
There is no magic wand. This is not messianic knowledge. There is no such thing.
There are always a percentage of beings at any time on this plane who have a
possibility on their fractal line to be able to meet whatever the possibilities are of
their time. It's the grace that is there for you, this possibility to be able to live out
the magic of what it is to be this form, because the moment you surrender to the
experiment is the moment you begin to see. How blind human beings are, how
unaware; they do not see. And you have to be in the right place to see. And the
mind doesn't know where that is, can't know where that is, will never know where
that is.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
8
NINE CENTERED AWAKENING
A New Being and A New Way of Life
We Cannot Rely On Mind
We are not the old model. We cannot rely on mind. We are so different. We are
so different to the extent that the mind itself has gone through mutation. At the
deeper levels of this knowledge, we know the mind has evolved into a binary
system that is very different in the way in which its predecessor operated. Half of
all the human beings coming into the world now have a receptive consciousness
that is new. And yet, they are being constantly conditioned from the moment they
come into this life by the past, by the old model, by the old philosophies, the old
gods, and the old moralities. Just because they‟re dressed up in 21st century
clothing doesn't mean they‟re new. It doesn't.
It's like health. Health is one of those areas everybody at the mundane level has to
be concerned about. It‟s one of the few times they pay attention to their forms. Go
into a pharmacy, a drugstore and look at the things that are on sale there, the
mass-produced remedies, generalized remedies that hundreds of millions of beings
ingest creating chemical symmetries—generalized phenomena. This is not who you
are. You're not somebody that particular bottle of that particular kind of remedy is
pointed at. It‟s a bucket of paint. It‟s just being thrown at the wall, hit or miss. It
has nothing to do with us.
We Are Designed to Differentiate
The most astonishing knowledge in Human Design is the recognition that not simply
are we a binary consciousness, but the recognition that we are designed to
differentiate, we are designed to be unique, we are designed to be truly different,
we‟re designed to operate out of our own authority, we are designed to eat
uniquely, we are designed to live uniquely, and we‟re designed to be in unique
environments with unique perspectives. We‟re not here to be generalized at all.
It's rewriting the book.
The Center for Human Differentiation
One of the most exciting areas of my work is we‟re about to close a three-year
program, the nine semesters of the Primary Health System program and the Rave
Psychology program. In September we‟re going to be opening up the Center for
Human Differentiation. It literally will be the very first time there is a holistic
environment that is exclusively dedicated to our kind. It is the only way, truly, that
we are going to find what is the way into well-being and the way to awareness
through these forms. We have a map. That‟s what this knowledge is. It‟s a map.
It lays it all out.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
9
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
I've been teaching for 21 years. We've laid out an absolutely enormous amount of
information about this knowledge. There is so much detail. And the reality is that
it all points back to one thing and one thing only: to look at any human being and
to look at any chart is to see no generalization. It‟s to see something that is truly
unique and to embrace it. I don't know, I've never known, the way in which
another human being understands what I mean when I say „unique.‟ I'm not
talking about different. I‟m talking about unique. I‟m talking about nothing like it,
nothing like it ever before, nothing like it ever after, nothing like it. Can you grasp
that? That‟s you.
This is the potential in each of us
that lies there that waits for
expression [the whole chart].
Instead, what do we get? We get
the disease of the open centers
[circled in red], we get the disease of
conditioning, and we get all these
human beings trying to live out what
they're not, trying to be secure,
trying to save themselves, and
fucked up in their minds.
Oh, it's so easy to be here [the whole
chart]. I tell you, I know. It is so
easy to be here when you don't have
to „do,‟ when your mind doesn‟t
have to be in charge, when you
don't have to figure out how to live, but you just breathe and see, breathe and see.
It all takes care of itself.
Strategy and Authority Guides You Correctly
This is the most incredible thing about form consciousness. When you tap into your
Strategy and Authority, you're tapping into the navigator, this ability to be able to
move you through the plane correctly. We are objects in space moving, all of us
moving. Everything is moving. It‟s a dance. And every decision you make in this
life is a navigation. If you make decisions with your mind you're always lost, you‟re
never, ever in the right place. You can‟t be. And there's no fulfilling of purpose
until you can navigate this plane. It‟s not about what you think you think you think
you think. It‟s how you live here.
Life at its best is the mundane made beautiful. If you're expecting awakening to be
a big Hollywood presentation, you're barking up the wrong fantasy. It's not like
that. It‟s about reaching your signature, every type has a signature. It‟s about
your signature becoming your life. It‟s about the Generator who is truly satisfied.
That‟s about as awake as you can get. And you can only get that through the
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
10
NINE CENTERED AWAKENING
A New Being and A New Way of Life
body, you can‟t get there through the mind, only through the body. There is no
other way; only through the body.
What the map says is look, it‟s very simple. We have these mechanisms.
Everybody has these mechanisms, these inner authorities, the magic of what it is to
be able to have a map, to be able to understand that there is this place within you
that you can trust. When‟s the last time you ever trusted anything? To trust in
yourself, to trust that you can navigate this plane without your mind? That‟s quite
a stamp. It's the first step in beginning to discover that you can love yourself. It
might have to start off with sort of, kind of, liking yourself. But it's on the way.
You have to meet
that being in order
to love them. You
have to see the
perfection of what it
is to be you. You
have to see what
uniqueness really
means. Not as a
concept, but what it
means as your life.
What I've noticed
over many, many
years now is that
those who approach
this the most
radically are the
ones who really get
to see it. You really have to take a hold of this. This is all you get. You think
there's going to be another chance? No. This is it. Anyone who cares to discover
can look deeply into this in relationship to themselves, to others, to whatever. You
can plow your way through this trying to find some loophole but there is none.
There is only one thing to do and it‟s to radically surrender to an experiment. It‟s
what it is. You‟re not sheep. I'm not here to be followed. You‟re here to have your
own trip, your own movie, your own wonder, but you can only get that through the
experiment of being you.
Seven Years to Transform the Vehicle
It's what your inner authority and your type takes you to, that mechanism that is
there within you, pure. It‟s not like the mind. It's not distorted. It‟s not hung up.
It doesn‟t have problems. It‟s a pure consciousness you have access to that is a
wonder of the experiment. And you can see it takes time, everything takes time.
Cellularly it takes seven years to transform the vehicle. It takes about 3½ years
before you really notice what's different. Everything takes time. But if you don't
start it's never going to happen. It just won‟t.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
11
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
We‟ve been offered an opportunity for perfection. That‟s what it is. It‟s not a
perfection based on somebody else's standard, obviously. It‟s not based on
somebody else's authority. It‟s about understanding something about ourselves
and our potential, that in our correctness what we are displaying is our perfection.
This is our true great beauty.
Mind Is Not the Enemy
There is something else to grasp. Mind is not the enemy. It may seem like that
when your life is ruled by your mind. But it‟s not the enemy. It really is your
continuity to eternity. It's the essence of you through all of time. It‟s a
magnificent thing, the personality crystal. And yet, it's deeply shrouded in the not-
self being. The messed up mind where there is never this possibility of the beauty
of what is there. We are all unique filters of the consciousness field. We all have
unique cognitive gifts, each and every one of us. Those are gifts that are
expressed ultimately through our correctness, to our being in the right place to see
what is there for us to see, to lay the foundation for the outer authority of mind,
inner authority/outer authority, the duality.
When mind is freed of being an inner authority—because realize what life is like
when mind pretends to be both the inner authority and the outer authority. That
mind only lies, because you‟re always protecting your ass one way or another. But
the moment you liberate mind, the moment you give it an opportunity, well, to be
an old dog learning a new trick, it‟s called „seeing.‟ It's one of those words. What
does it actually mean? I'm not talking about the illusion of the three-dimensional
field that we call our seeing. No, it isn‟t about that. It‟s about being aware. This is
about grasping everything without having to. It is the freedom that comes with
being able to move through this space correctly.
Outer Authority of Mind
You begin to hone in on what is your cognitive depth, your skill, and your potential.
The world becomes a different world, your world, your universe, and that mind can
become something of genuine interest to the other. We have always had, as a
species, a responsibility to
educate each other. It is why
we're so garrulous. It is why
we are so profoundly
equipped to communicate
with each other. And yet,
listen to all the blah, blah we
have to put up with in this
life. The kinds of things that
human beings are constantly
saying to each other and
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
12
NINE CENTERED AWAKENING
A New Being and A New Way of Life
about the other and on and on and on—the chitchat of the not-self world. We think
it‟s impressive when somebody can actually express themselves in a way that
seems to be intelligent. It goes to show you how little competition there is for that
on this planet.
The outer authority of mind is the ultimate glory of awakening. And it‟s not about
what you get yourself; it‟s about what your unique ability to grasp the experience
can mean for somebody else as information. We‟re here to entertain each other.
We are, truly. The outer authority of mind has the potential of being just as sexy
as sex. Most of us are bored to death with the other, aren't we, with the same old
stuff, same old chitchat, and same old homogenized perspectives. It‟s always
interesting to hear something different, isn‟t it? You know that. It's what I wait for
in this movie, all of those interesting outer authorities.
Each and every one of us in our uniqueness has our own potential of being a value
to the other. I am limited in what I can see. I see what I see. But there is so
much that I don‟t see. There are so many entertaining things that one could
imagine. I don‟t know. I wait. It is a great challenge to release the outer
authority of the mind. It‟s the greatest challenge of all in this process. And yet, it
all goes back to the beginning, it all goes back to the foundation. It all goes back
to the simple, simple, simple.
It's just Strategy and Authority. There isn't anything else that‟s going to get you
there. There isn‟t. It's the only thing that will get you there. It is the only thing
that can free you. It is the only thing that can align you to where you‟re intended
to be aligned. It is the only thing that can open up inside of you the power to
discover your own beauty, to embrace it, to love it,
to live it, to breathe it, to be without fear, and to
stand with your authority.
This is the magic. It‟s not a dream. It‟s not a
fantasy. I‟m not a huckster; I'm a mechanic. It‟s
just mechanics. I already know that. I have enough
people in my life who have been through their process where it‟s very obvious what
Human Design does for a human being. But it doesn't matter if somebody else
does it. It only matters when you do it. That‟s the movie. Each and every one of
us; nobody is here to help us. I can't help you do that. I can't. All I can do is give
you some information. That‟s all you get. Nobody is going to hold your hand.
Enlightened Selfishness
In the end, nobody really wants you to transform. You remember that. So many
can't and never will. They don't like seeing it in others and don't necessarily like
seeing them try. It's quite a thing. You have to be selfish. I call it enlightened
selfishness. It‟s not about not caring or loving the other. It has nothing to with
that. It has to do with if you're not correct, and if you're not operating the way
you‟re intended to operate, there is nothing you can offer the other. It begins
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
13
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
within oneself. You can't expect anything from anyone. It has to be you, just you.
It's the way this knowledge works, one human being at a time.
We live in times that are truly dynamic and we can take advantage of it. We have
this brief opportunity, because it is brief. There isn‟t that much time in a human
life. We moved into these Uranian bodies in 1781, different from the Saturnian
body. The nine-centered being lives longer. It needs to; it needs to be able to
process a lot of information. It needs a lot of time. Enter into the process correctly
and you will do for your vehicle what it needs to keep it healthy and correct, to give
you that opportunity to be able to move through your process, to give you those
years you need to de-condition, to begin to live as yourself, and to begin to mature
into the being you can be. And it‟s all simple.
Human Design: Learning to Make Decisions as Yourself
If anyone ever asks you what is Human Design, you tell them it‟s about learning
how to make a decision as yourself. That's all. Truly, this is what this knowledge is
about; please grasp that. Know how to make a decision as yourself. And as you
well know, the technique is very simple. Whatever type you are, it's a matter of
words, a couple of words here and there that describes what the way is for you.
Well, that's the way.
As profound and beautiful as this knowledge is, this science of differentiation, it‟s a
boon to humanity and to anyone who is ready. It‟s so incredibly simple. Don't be
fooled by how simple it is. It is the absolute, and as such can be nothing else but
simple. That is real beauty.
Anyway, to all of you, it was very nice to be able to share this with you. I‟m glad
that all you could drop in, and do take care. And remember, follow your strategy
and honor your inner authority. Bye for now.
~
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
14
The Four Transformations
A Guide to Achieving Difference
The Science of Differentiation
Hello everyone; welcome. The Science of Differentiation—Human Design and the
way Human Design is applied in the world is based on the science of differentiation.
Differentiation is really a revolutionary thing. It has never truly been the purpose
of the way in which humanity has operated. It is only in relatively recent times
with the advent of the nine-centered being in 1781 that it is truly possible for us to
be able to differentiate. To be able to experience what it is to be fulfilled within
ones own particular unique way.
It‟s the wonder of what this knowledge is about. It‟s why I keep saying that this
knowledge is about one person at a time because there is no other way to describe
it because the goal of this knowledge is to set you on a path to being different.
And different in a way that has nothing to do with the difference we notice in the
homogenized world, but an extraordinary difference, a uniqueness, the ability to be
able to live out clearly one‟s own purpose in this life.
I‟ve discussed the advent of the nine-centered being, what it means for us to be
these transitional forms and what an enormous possibility there is for us in terms of
our ability to take from the mechanics that are there in this science of
differentiation techniques that will allow us to fulfill our potential in a way that has
never before been possible. It is mechanical. It is something that is not a great
mystery. It‟s like everything else having to do with Human Design: It is
fundamentally simple.
Before I can take you through the four transformations, there is something to
understand. These transformations, as I will describe them, are really something
that is part of work that began, really, about five years ago. Over the last three
years in the IHDS with the Primary Health System and the Rave Psychology
programs, the details of the mechanics of what it is to be a nine-centered being
have been explored in a way that is never before been possible.
It has allows us mechanically to be able to see basically the program. That is, the
stages of transformation, what they mean and how you get there. I guess that‟s
the most extraordinary thing. There‟s a menu for everyone. It is the beauty of the
science of differentiation—it is not here to present generalized knowledge. It is
here to be of service to the unique individual.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
15
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
Transformation Begins with Strategy and Authority
But it begins somewhere. Transformation does not begin in a vacuum. It begins
with a catalyst. The catalyst is about shattering the surface. The catalyst is what
we call Strategy and Authority. The not-self world, the homogenized world, is not
lost in any deep sense. They‟re lost right there on the surface, not able to tap into
the true resources that are there within
them. Not able to navigate on this
plane according to their own authority.
But lost on the surface in the
homogenized world and the way the
homogenized world works.
What it means for a human being to
give up their life for their mind so their
mind can dictate their not-self reality,
their not-self purpose. Their anger, their frustration, their bitterness, their
disappointment becomes the patina of the world that we live in. There is no
transformation until you can embrace Strategy and Authority. There is no
transformation possible. It makes no difference to me, speaking personally, about
whatever philosophical, religious, or spiritual source you may came from.
Transformation is not possible until you experiment with Strategy and Authority,
and not simply experiment with it, but to radically embrace that experiment. It is
the only way.
There is no other way to break through the surface because the surface is ruled by
the mind. The not-self mind rules the surface. It is “the magic” of Human Design
that it goes beneath that surface. It sees it for what it is. And in seeing each of us
as unique beings, presented as it is through this science, a doorway opens up, a
way in which the deep homogenization in your life, the deep conditioning in your
life from the moment you left the womb, that this is an extraordinary opportunity
to be able to arrest that conditioning and to begin a seven-year process of
deconditioning.
We are a Binary Consciousness
We are objects and we are moving. And everything about our lives is about
navigation, what we call decision making—this way or that way. It is not for the
mind. It is not. And the only way you are ever going to be able to even to begin
the process of transformation is you have to surrender to what we are. We are a
binary consciousness, a binary consciousness—get used to that. It is the only way
to even begin to understand yourself. We are not just simply this mind. It is
incapable of managing the life; it‟s not designed to manage the life.
And because of this knowledge, we have the mechanics. We can understand the
way in which this binary consciousness functions. It basically becomes two schools
of thought—the Design and Personality sides. Until you break through the surface,
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
16
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
and this has been the tragedy of the entire spiritual program for thousands of
years, you can dream anything, but oh, to live it, breath by breath to live it, this is
something else. And it means that you have to surrender.
Uniqueness
You would not be here if you were particularly normal. You never would have had
a fractal that brought you to this point. You already understand, to one degree or
another, the dilemmas of difference, the difference in the way in which it‟s rooted in
the homogenized world. You‟re here to establish the perfection of that difference.
But what you will discover today is that the steps which are necessary, the
transformations that are there, each one is more and more radical. And it‟s more
and more radical in the way it points you towards what this knowledge is about.
It is the science of differentiation. It is about uniqueness, and how to provide any
human being who is ready with the tools and the map to go find that uniqueness.
But, think about what that means. You‟re all nearly buried up to your head in your
lives. The not-self lives that you‟ve got yourself into, the world as you knew it; oh,
it‟s quite a thing. It‟s one thing to be different and be a prisoner; it‟s another thing
to be different and to be free. But it means that you have to invest your
consciousness in yourself. It strikes me as fascinating that so much of spirituality
is associated with vermine—let‟s make friends, let‟s be a tribe, let‟s be a commune,
let‟s be a group, let‟s be this, let‟s be homogenized. Let‟s all bow at the same time.
If you do not have the courage to live your own life, tune into another station,
because that is what this is about. It‟s not about saving humanity. It‟s about
saving you. And no one else can save you but you; no one else. There you are in
your life, holding on for dear life to all of that, afraid to give it up, afraid to stand
absolutely by yourself within yourself.
It‟s called selfishness. It doesn‟t have to be a bad word. It isn‟t. It really isn‟t. If
you‟re not going to care for yourself now, if you are not going to do the best you
can to find a way to fulfill your promise, if you don‟t do it now when are you going
to do it? When do you think you‟re going to be able to do it? When do you think
that somebody else is going to lay it on a plate for you? That somebody is going to
lay their hands on you and make it disappear? This knowledge is revolutionary. It
is heretical. It is radical. It is not for the weak of heart. It is not for those who
need to cling in this life. It is not. It can‟t be.
It doesn‟t mean there aren‟t values inherent in relationships of all kinds. It isn‟t
about any of that. This knowledge did not come into the world for you. I know
that. It came into the world for children who aren‟t born yet, the ones who won‟t
have to be deconditioned. I‟ve been dealing with deconditioning for 21 years. It‟s
laborious. You have to be here for yourself. Human Design is about claiming your
own authority. That is what differentiation begins with. And your mind is not your
own authority at all. It‟s a hodgepodge of your conditioning agenda.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
17
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Body is the Life
We are a binary consciousness. We have a vehicular consciousness. And the
vehicle, the body is the life. It is a bio-form. It has to deal with what it is to be on
the material plane. It is what the life is all about. The Personality is a passenger.
It is not the life. It is the witness of the life, the watcher. It is not the life. Human
Design takes an enormously deep spiritual concept and just turns it into simple
mechanics because that‟s what the mechanics reveal.
You have to surrender, give up your mind being your authority. There is no other
way. And begin to trust in what is the power that is inherent in your design.
Without Strategy and Authority you can‟t be aligned. You‟re not going to make
decisions correctly, you don‟t have access to the cognition you need, and the
sensory potential that is inherent in you. You don‟t have any of that. You‟re just
another fool; lemmings, actually. So I know you will find transformation
interesting. But please beware; these steps are only for those who are willing to go
there alone, regardless of the consequences, because it‟s the only thing that‟s ever
going to matter for you.
The Center for Human Differentiation
Over the last number of years in the work of Primary Health System and Rave
Psychology, a very deep and profound structuring and understanding of structuring
has been explored. It is through this that the Center for Human Differentiation,
which will open up in September, will actually be able to provide the kind of
extremely sophisticated guidance to each of the steps that are involved in this
process.
What you‟re looking at here is
a deconstruction, of sorts, of
what is known as Maia
Mechanics Advanced Imaging.
That is, it is a software
program based on MMI and a
program that I developed for
Rave Psychology and PHS
professionals in order to be
able to integrate all the deep
levels of information that are
there in terms of what can be
investigated in terms of the
database.
Though this is not something that is available to the general Design audience—it is
limited to students of the program—it is something that I placed in the JAM Player
for you to get used to seeing the database presented in this way. It is something
that is, in and of itself, extraordinary in the sense that it has provided us with keys,
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
18
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
and mechanical techniques derived from those keys to be able to support each of
the processes that are necessary in terms of these transformations.
I‟m not in any way, by the way, this evening going to teach you that. But I want to
give you a sense of what these transformations are rooted in. At the same time to
be able to understand that the Center for Human Differentiation is going to be there
to be provide education, workshops and developmental programs for people
relative to these various transformations.
For those of you who are newcomers to Human Design and are interested in
studying Human Design, these programs are open for students to enter into. They
are three-year programs on either side. So for those of you who are really
interested in the deeper levels of this knowledge, there will be and are
opportunities for you to gain access to it.
The Chart: MMAI
This is the first time publicly that I really present the information we have been
working on for many, many years now in a public sense. So, let‟s begin at the
beginning with number one. What you‟re looking at here is a configuration in which
you‟re seeing the Design Sun/Earth.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
19
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
In the box here, you‟re actually seeing what the Base is. You‟re looking at the
gate configuration and with that, the Line and then in the hexagon shape you have
the Color and in the triangular shape you actually have the Tone. In other words,
it‟s all of the basic elements that are there in this specific imprinting from the
Planet to the Gate to the Line to the Color to the Tone to the Base.
Base Base
Tone Color
Planet
Planet
Gate Line Gate Line
Here, when we‟re looking at number one, we are looking at what is the first radical
step necessary once one has entered into one‟s experiment of Strategy and
Authority. It‟s not about you entering into the experiment of Strategy and
Authority on Saturday and on Sunday and then you‟re ready for this. It really isn‟t
the case.
One of the things that you begin to discover when you begin to experiment with
your Strategy and Authority is that you begin to notice a shifting in the way in
which you look at the world, the way in which you see things. It can be quite a
process for you to live through that, to deal with that. It isn‟t necessary that any of
this carry any kind of time frame. Remember something about being in your
experiment in terms of your Strategy and Authority: none of these particular steps
are steps that can be taken unless it‟s correct for you to take those steps according
to your Strategy and Authority. And according to your Strategy and Authority, it
will know when it is correct for you in terms of timing.
Establishing Your Unique Space
One of the most important things that goes along with your Strategy and Authority
is that you have to begin your differentiation process by establishing your unique
space. This is something that is absolutely essential. And by „unique space‟ I
simply mean that you need to have a bedroom in which you sleep by yourself;
period. And it is something that is very, very important. Remember that the goal
here is the differentiated being. That means you have to decondition and get rid of
what has been the way in which you‟ve operated based on the not-self
conditioning. You have to begin to see what‟s happening to you as you begin to
operate correctly and operate correctly in terms of your decision making, your
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
20
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
navigating the way in which you‟re moving. But what is very important is that you
accompany that in a much more acute awareness of the need to protect your aura.
Something that‟s often forgotten, particularly about those coming into the
knowledge, it seems kind of a new agey term and all that kind of stuff, the reality is
that every type has a very distinct aura. It tells you an enormous amount about
them as a being. It also tells you that all of us are deeply impacted by the auric
field. It is something that is extremely detrimental to your vehicle for you to be,
while you‟re unconscious, while you‟re in a sleeping state, in somebody else‟s aura.
It serves no function unless you‟re living in Nome, Alaska and you‟ve lost the heat
and it‟s for warmth, but it doesn‟t serve any function.
It‟s very important to understand that you‟re not going to be able to differentiate
yourself if you constantly leave yourself vulnerable to conditioning. You have to be
aware of space. You have to be aware of beginning to define your space with
authority. It‟s the first radical step for many, many people. The majority of people
who come into Human Design tend to be married women. It is something that can
be a strain on their relationship. It is something that can be deeply misunderstood.
It can lead to all kinds of dilemmas. And yet, if you‟re ever going to establish your
life you can‟t do that while you‟re constantly being homogenized. You need your
space.
The moment you‟re living according to your Strategy and Authority and you‟re
experimenting with that, you are giving your aura the respect and attention it
needs. Anyone who is involved in their Strategy and Authority has been given a lot
of information by the analyst who gave them their reading. There are things for
them to be aware of. There are things for them to learn to see about the nature of
themselves in that process.
But, Strategy and Authority is the catalyst. At that level and that level alone, the
level that most human beings who have been introduced to Human Design, know
Human Design, at that level, what you‟re looking at is a biological deconditioning
process. And the net result of that is somebody who is much more comfortable in
their life and has a much more pleasant life, let‟s put it that way. In other words, it
is a process that is fulfilling for them in terms of their mundane relationship to it.
It doesn‟t mean it doesn‟t go any deeper than that. Now please don‟t
misunderstand me. That‟s fine. But the knowledge says that mechanically it‟s
possible to go completely through this process and to get to the complete
fulfillment mechanically. It is what intrigues me. It is what has kept me doing this
and maintains my excitement about the work I do. I already know that the body
can be healed. This is not the dilemma. The great dilemma is mind. But the body
can be healed. It is the work of Primary Healthy System to be able to lay out the
parameters of transformation one and two and to be able to provide all of the
techniques necessary in order to be able to move through those processes. But
each one, as I said, is a radical step.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
21
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The First Transformation: Digestion
We begin with digestion. Think about it. The moment you came into the world you
were conditioned by the food that was put in your mouth, by the way it was put in
your mouth, by the way you were treated, and by the diet you were given. You‟ve
been homogenized through food your entire life. What that food homogenization
does is destroy the ability of your digestive system to be able to provide the
specific nutrition that your unique system needs in order to be able to enhance its
processes, and particularly to be able to enhance brain function and what are the
potential cognitive forces that are there in each unique human being. It‟s through
digestion.
Digestion
Because this is the science of differentiation it is essential to understand that
everybody has a unique digestive process. You‟re not here to eat like the next
person. And none of this has anything to do with food, funny enough, because it
doesn‟t. It has to do with digestion and the circumstances and conditions upon
which it is best for you to eat.
Think about the way you‟ve lived your life and the way in which you have put food
into your body, nutrition into your body. You‟ve done that according to
homogenized cultural patterns. There are a zillion of diets out there that make
billions of dollars with diets of this kind of food and that kind of food. I want to tell
you something. If I‟m following my dietary regimen, and I do, I can eat road kill
and I can get from it exactly the nutrition I need.
Now, I may be exaggerating, but the reality is that it‟s not about the food, it‟s how
you digest. The digestive system in and of itself is an evolutionary system, six
different digestive stages that are embodied by different kinds of beings who have
different kinds of digestive systems that require different conditions or
circumstances in order for them to be able to provide their system, not with waste,
not with bulk, not with pointless quantity, but specifically with what are the exact
ingredients necessary for the nutrition of the brain system.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
22
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
Enhances Cognitive Potential
But you have to understand something about transforming through digestion. First
of all, what does it do? What it does is bring nutrition to those areas of your brain
that are specifically related to your particular gifts; in other words, your particular
cognitive abilities, your sensory ability. Every human being has unique sensory
tools. Over time, through the lack of diet, through the not-self mind, these tools
are homogenized. You never gain access to them. And you never get the benefit
of what this cognition can mean for you when you‟re making your decisions
according to your Strategy and Authority. It enhances your potential to make the
correct decision.
Social Consequences
But it is a radical step. It‟s not like experimenting with a diet. Like everything else
in Human Design, it totally ignores social convention. It has nothing to do with
homogenized groupings. It‟s about the individual, which means in most cases it
changes what is the most deeply social homogenizing tool that the program has,
the family dinner table, the restaurant—homogenization madness. And then think
about what it‟s like for you who have always been slightly different and now are
very different. You might be making funny noises when
you‟re making decisions that It’s only when irk other people. You may
have already pissed you begin to somebody off because you
insist on having your own space. And now you don‟t
trust yourself
want to eat with them.
that you can
begin to love
If you‟re going to walk this way, you‟re going to have to
yourself.
be a very selfish warrior. This is not a cakewalk. This is not
some kind of game. It‟s really quite something. It‟s
about nurturing your power, your authority, and your beauty. It‟s about learning
how to trust yourself. It‟s only when you begin to trust yourself that you can begin
to love yourself. Human beings basically don‟t like themselves at all. It seems so
important what somebody else thinks because you‟re lost in a homogenized world
where those things trap you and imprison you.
Every step you take in this knowledge moves you further and further into your
process, not somebody else‟s. It‟s not an easy thing to share. It is a deep, deep
inner process. It‟s yours. Everything about the world around you is an illusion.
It‟s the illusion you see every moment according to where you‟re at. It‟s quite
something to begin to really see, to begin to see with your eyes, and to begin to
see with the possibilities that are there for you based on what you are. You have a
cross and a profile and a design. You have a purpose in this life. These are not
things you can just have or that you deserve. You have to have courage to get
there.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
23
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
It doesn‟t matter. I know there is pain in all of these things. For others, there are
always these dilemmas when you try to establish what is right for you. And please,
do not misunderstand me.
Once you are you, the door is
open to anyone who is correct
for you. But first you have to
be that being before you can
know. And you can‟t get
there holding on to the
remnants of your life.
So, yes digestion is step
number one. But it moves
you further and further and
deeper into this process. It
also begins to affect your
mental acuity, the sharpening
of your senses, the ease with
which you begin to be
sensitized to your own design. This being, for example, in having their proper
digestive regimen will become more and more sensitive to the nature of their
emotional nature, becoming more aware. This is what this is about in the end.
The Knowledge is for Children
But your brain system is all gunked up with all of that deep homogenization and
conditioning. You don‟t have to go this way. As I said, the vast majority of people
who will meet Human Design and experiment with their Strategy and Authority will
just enjoy what it brings them as a benefit, not necessarily go any further than
that. Not everybody can go this way. It wasn‟t meant for adults who are already
in their lives. It wasn‟t. It‟s unfortunate. It really is for children so they know the
basic ABC‟s of who they are and what is correct for them so they don‟t have to be
conditioned beings who have to be deconditioned and go through transformations.
They‟re born and nurtured unique. We‟re not. For all of us, we are carrying
enormous baggage, all that conditioning and all the pressure from it. If you‟re
going to go this way, you turn your back. You look one way. Everything else will
fall into place; it does. Things come together, things fall apart. This is the nature
of life. It is just a duality out there. But this is the first time in the history of our
species that there is a possibility for human beings mechanically to transcend the
very form itself. To liberate the possibility of the passenger that has never had this
possibility, did not have it in the seven-centered being for tens of thousands of
years, did not have it. We have that potential.
It‟s not about enlightenment. I don‟t consider that a nine-centered term. It‟s
about something else. It‟s about something that‟s difficult to describe because it‟s
so unique that you have to get there and it‟s step-by-step. You can see that you
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
24
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
begin, always over here, the body. So the first transformation is in digestion and
digestion transforms the brain system. It enhances the cognitive potential. It
opens up a different kind of hardware for the way in which the personality is going
to take advantage of it.
The Second Transformation: Environment
Then there‟s the second transformation. In many ways the second transformation
is the one that sets you irreversibly on a course with consciousness. For me it is
one of the most beautiful things I have seen in all the years I‟ve worked in this
knowledge. These are the Design Nodes. And the Nodes are very, very influential
in understanding the nature of the life, because they are the life itself. The
Sun/Earths represent the
possibility of a being. But the
possibility of a being outside of
the movement, outside of the
maya itself, like a theoretical
construct waiting for its
possibility, the possibility
arrives with the Nodes because
the Nodes bring this
extraordinary movement. They
are the masters of the
orchestra of the geometries of
existence.
We all have a unique special
movement in space. It‟s what
the Nodes represent and it is
not just simply something that appears to be mystical, it is very, very, very
important at the most deep and mundane level. It is your life. It establishes your
life. And this transformation in environment is about understanding something
about the vehicle that you have. It‟s a new souped-up model. The old model, the
Saturnian model, the model of the seven-centered human being, this was a model
that if you were lucky you got 30 years out of it; if you were lucky.
We have this souped-up Uranian model, the 84-year model. We already know.
You see it in the world in extraordinary layers of society in which people are aging
and aging and aging and aging. Well, this is the benefit of this new, improved
vehicle. And yet, this vehicle is very, very specifically oriented to operating at its
best when it is in the right environment. It is one of the great beauties of Primary
Health System knowledge to be able to pinpoint for someone what is
environmentally correct for them.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
25
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
Digestion
Environment
That environmental correctness brings many, many things. It brings a change in
the quality of life. It is very important for us with our Uranian vehicles that we stay
healthy. The flowering in this vehicle is an era that begins post-50, post-Kiron.
You need to have a good vehicle, healthy vehicle, and healthy brain. And
ultimately this environment is about the ability to maintain a healthy long-living
vehicle.
Think about it this way. The moment you‟re aligned to the geometry that is correct
for you, the moment you get into that differentiated movement, the resistance
disappears. It‟s your line. This is the beauty of it. So, the transformation that
comes in the second transformation is another transformation that adds to the
radical-ness of this as an approach for those who are deconditioning, because this
is intended for a child who would be raised absolutely correctly, who at their Saturn
Return would then go out into the world and claim their correct environment.
But that‟s not what we‟re like. And what you‟re going to discover is if you look into
this, you will find out that your environment that is good for you isn‟t necessarily
good for your partner, your friend, your colleagues, your parents, whatever the
case may be. What to do.
After 2027 the Theme will be Individual Survival
This is a very radical movement because it is about individuality. In 2027, the
wheel is going to turn. We‟re going to enter into an age of over 400 years in which
the main theme is going to be individual survival. It‟s very different. It‟s why this
knowledge came into the world. It‟s for those who are going to be born or those
children who are being correctly raised now, so that they‟re going to be able to live
in that world and be able to deal with that world.
There is an order that arises out of your correctness: a space, a diet, an
environment, a movement, a totally different way of life. It‟s quite something to
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
26
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
get there. Don‟t think that you can just jump on that; you can‟t. But you have a
right to know. You have a right to see what‟s there.
The Center for Human Differentiation is there to support anybody who wants to
take this journey. It‟s an
extraordinary journey. There
is a relationship that exists
between the Nodes that is a
way in which they operate
according to the Monopole [G
Center]. It is a way in the
“this” and the “that,” the
Design and the Personality
are brought together into this
holistic illusion [red rectangular
box]. And in that sense, the
moment that correctness is
here is the moment this side
begins to align automatically.
And when I say „this side‟ I
am referring to the
Personality, who you think
you are.
The Third Transformation: Perspective
The third transformation is an extraordinary one. It‟s called Perspective. Rave
Psychology is far more profound by any enormous measurement than any other
kind of investigation into the nature of mind. Perhaps one of the most incredible
things about this knowledge is being able to see exactly, precisely, the way in
which the unique mind both works as not-self and in terms of its potential as a
correct being. One of the most fascinating areas of the study in Rave Psychology is
the Personality Node and its perspective or its view.
It is this perspective that establishes the way in which the mind is going to
conceptualize. Think about that. It is your particular perspective. Every human
being, every differentiated human being has a unique way of looking at the world.
A unique way that is exactly correct for you, precisely correct for you, a unique way
to look at the world. And when you‟re looking at the world uniquely through your
particular perspective, it is only then that you‟re providing the mind with the
foundation, the Personality with the foundation to be able to conceptualize in the
way in which it was intended.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
27
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Fourth Transformation: Awareness
It brings us to the close. It brings us to the final turn. Here lies the passenger.
The passenger is sitting there in the
backseat. You can see how the
backseat graphically, tongue in
cheek, anyway, is being built here in
the first three transformations.
Strategy and Authority, in your own
aura when you go to sleep, eating
according to what is correct for you
according to your condition or your
circumstance, operating in an
environment that is healing and
beneficial to you, and establishing a
perspective upon which your unique
awareness can be established.
And finally, what this is all about—saving the body for me, healing the body for me
is good. I‟m very pleased to reintroduce the deep understanding of what the form
principle is all about. But I am a personality. And it is my personality that is
transcendent, not my design. I am operating in a meat package. A very
sophisticated meat package, one that I respect, one that I allow to dictate my life;
but, it‟s still a meat package. And I‟m the observer of the phenomena of what it is
to be in one of these things. And to be free of the mundane nonsense of thinking
that I‟m supposed to be in charge of it.
Digestion
Environment
Perspective
Awareness
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
28
THE FOUR TRANSFORMATIONS
A Guide to Achieving Difference
We are Here to See
It‟s only then that you begin to see, to see. You‟re here to see. You‟re here to be
passengers in the backseat. And we‟re here to do something very special with that
seeing. We can only get to it uniquely. But the moment we achieve it is the
moment we turn around and we do what we do best, what we‟ve always done best,
what we‟ve always done better than any other creature: communicate.
Oh, the magic of awareness communicated, the beauty of what we call outer
authority. It‟s better than enlightenment. It‟s better than awakening in the sense
that those things do not apply. It‟s not about any of that. It‟s about being what
we‟ve always been, what we will eternally be: filters. We‟re here to filter the
consciousness field. And we‟re here to filter it as purely as we can and share it.
Outer authority will be better than sex; I guarantee it, because it‟s something else.
We‟ve lived in a world without difference. It is a sad thing, because there is so
much that‟s there. And it‟s only when we can fully embrace difference that we can
learn again the magic of what it is to be enthralled, to be entertained, to be
stimulated, to be able to share a level of consciousness that is beautiful; and not
the not-self world with its lies, with its dull, boring, bromides communication,
boring patterns, same old chitchat, and same old stuff.
Yes, any human being can be transformed. I know that. I know that deeply. I
know it, not as a believer, but I know it as a scientist, as a mechanic. The question
mark is the being itself. That‟s the question mark. It is how ready you are to be
here for you, first and foremost, absolutely, to embrace this as radically as you can
because this is it. This is it.
All right, folks, it was nice to share that with you. I‟m glad you could all participate
in this. To all of you, enjoy the entertainment, look after yourself. Bye for now.
~
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
29
The Not-Self
What Stands between You and Transformation
Hello and welcome to all of you to this third in this series of lectures, and in many
ways the one that is most significant. I‟ve been working in Human Design for 21
years. It‟s a long time. And I‟ve seen a lot of things in those 21 years. I‟ve seen
the magic of mechanics. I think in the
previous lectures, Nine-Centered
Awakening, and in The Four
Transformations, it's clear that Human
Design provides a mechanical
explanation for why life does not work
and how it can. And not only does it
provide an explanation, it provides the
tools and the techniques which are
really truly simple to be able to
empower any single human being to be
able to change their life.
When I was given this knowledge, I
began as a mystic. When I was given this knowledge, it seemed to me that it was
too good to be true. All I had to do was think about Generators. Oh, I thought a
lot about Generators. I thought, gee, look at that. Perfect creatures, perfect,
perfect and all they have to do is just respond. Hell, it‟s only seven letters: just
respond.
Mind Stands in the Way
I‟ve spent 21 years explaining that, showing that. There are so many Generators
now who live what it is to be a Generator. But the vast numbers of Generators who
have had a glancing blow at Human Design or who will never ever, ever even get
close, there's something that‟s standing in the way. I guess it's an irony, because
the very thing that establishes the nature of being for us is the very thing that‟s
screwing everything up. It‟s the mind. We are a nine-center being and what
makes us truly different is that we are a realized binary consciousness. I teach
form principle. What I teach is that the vehicle, the body, is the life. That if the
body is allowed to live the life, its life, the experience of that life, the way mind will
construct it, will be totally transformed.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2007 Jovian Archive Corporation
30
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
It is what Human Design provides. It says here is the key to transform your life.
It's called Type and Inner Authority. It is not complex. It is easily grasped by
children and by fools. After all, it is universal knowledge. It is simple, simple, truly
simple. And yet, there's something that stands in the way and it is mind. It stands
in the way of the perfection of the Generator as it does stand in the way for the
potential of anyone else. Nobody taught you what it was for, did they, this thing
through which we define our existence, because nobody knew.
The Mind is Not for Decision Making
What stands in the way for you is that there is a deep conditioning that trains you
to follow your mind. It seems appropriate, doesn‟t it? I like the humor of it. After
all, it is through mind that all of this is possible—me to you, here, our lives. And
yet, Human Design says something that nothing has ever said before. It says your
mind is not for decision making. Your mind is not for decision making. That‟s all
the mind has ever been, the decision maker. “I create this illusion, therefore I shall
control it. I will make it be what I want it to be and I will shape it in the way I want
to shape it.” And of course, because through a lifetime one cannot, one endures
what it is to be unaware. And life brings to those who are unaware the chaos and
dysfunction of the world we live in.
The thing that is standing in the way is mind. It‟s standing in the way because the
way in which mind makes decisions, that when you really grasp it, it will turn your
stomach. I‟m going to
show you. Everything
about life is “this and
that.” This is the nature
of being, this is the
nature of the illusion, and
this is the maya that we
live in. It is “this,” it is
“that.” It is what we are
as a construct, as a
holistic construct; one of
these things [bodygraph
enclosed in blue]. And
you immediately see the
“this and that.” You see
those things that are
colored in and you see
those things that are
white and you see the
“this and that.” You‟re
seeing two things, in a way. You‟re seeing the possibility of who you can be. And
the possibility of what most likely you will live out. It has nothing to do with you.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
31
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
Your Mind is Connected Directly to Your Openness
Think about the “this and that,” because this is all about “this and that.” Look at
this whiteness in here. Most of us have whiteness, some people have a lot. I want
you to think about what this is. We‟re a bio-form. We have a genetic imperative to
reproduce. We have a genetic imperative to reproduce and reproduction demands
that we mate with what is different from us so that we don't create genetic dead
ends. So we are designed in our very openness, in our whiteness, we are designed
in this openness to have receptors.
Receptors that in the language of poetry long, yearn, burn, fade and died for what
they are not. Oh, you cannot imagine the pull that the genetic imperative has on
the human being. Think about this whiteness when it comes into the world. Think
about this whiteness when it meets the conditioning of its father, of its mother, how
it comes in, how it goes away, how you can‟t hold on to it, and how you become
seduced by what you do not have. And everything inside of you is a chemistry
saying “Yes, yes, yes. You go for it.”
I want you to think about your minds. I want you to think about the way they
work. I want you to understand that your mind is connected directly to your
openness. I mean directly to your openness. It will condition the way in which
your mind will make a decision. It will condition it.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
32
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
The Heart Center: Trying to Prove Yourself
Let‟s start with a crusher. This is the Heart Center. I start here because about two
thirds of humanity has an undefined Heart Center. It‟s white. And that white
center, in four billion people, is a center that drives the way in which those four
billion people are going to make a decision. And what is it going to be based on? If
you have an open Heart Center, if you have an undefined ego, your life is about
trying to get everybody to see you are just terrific. You‟ll take the shirt off your
back. You‟ll take the skin off your flesh. Look at me, aren‟t I worthy? You‟ll work
for less, settle for less, and live for less.
Every time somebody asks you something, every time there's a decision for you to
make, what do you think your mind is looking at it? Can I prove myself? Is this
something that is going to show I'm worthy? That person who asks you to do
something that really is impossible to do and you know it. And that open center
says, “Oh yeah, I can do this for you. Let me show you how worthy I am. Let me
show you how terrific I am. Let me show you how I throw away my life.” Gone,
because the mind doesn't care about you because you do not exist. It is this other
that you want, this not-self that you feed. It‟s fear. The fear that you're going to
be seen as something other than what you are.
Do you know what I tell people who come into the world with an open ego?
Smarten up. You have nothing to prove. That‟s an advantage. I know. I‟m an
ego being. Twenty-one years proving—that's what I'm here for. You come into the
world with an undefined ego you have nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing to prove
to anyone, to yourself, to anything. It is not in your karma, your destiny. It‟s not
in anything. But your mind is addicted to it. It‟s addicted to anything that it is not.
Anything that it is not.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
33
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
Strategy and Inner Authority
So, this is what makes decisions. What makes decisions is not you. It is all that
conditioning that just digs into you and you go for it and you‟re lost. Human
Design understands this. It is what so obviously the mechanics reveal. And it is so
easy to get around this dilemma. It is so easy to transform this life and begin to
de-condition so that you can live your life. It's so easy. It is Strategy and Inner
Authority. You would think all these intelligent people on this plane, that at least
they would be fortunate enough that they would experiment to see for themselves.
We hold on so deeply and dearly to these minds as if they really are in charge of
what is to be us. They‟re not. The mind is the gas of the brain.
We are passenger consciousness. We are here to experience the life without threat
to our survival. We are not here to live our lives according to anyone's authority,
any conditioning forces authority. Do you want to spend the rest of your life with
your open Heart Center bending over for every single human being? And yet, there
is something that stands in the way, doesn‟t it? It‟s this mind that doesn‟t seem to
let go because it can‟t, and it never will. You cannot kill the not-self because it is
also you. You cannot destroy it. You can transform it. It is about you being able
to operate with an authority that by-passes the mind.
It is the way in which you begin this journey. Truly it is the only way. There is no
other way. No one is smarter than the program. There is no other way. You
cannot think yourself out of this one. You have to breathe it. You stop listening to
your mind telling you what to do. There is nothing to do. It is about being.
Every human being has a mechanism that allows them to claim authority in this
life. Ah, the generations and generations and generations of inbred sheep. You
see, this knowledge is for wolves. It is for those that are ready to stand by their
own authority. The mind isn‟t your authority. It pays lip service to everything you
are not, everything you are not.
The Splenic Center: Holding on to What is not Good for You
Let's think about these two babies when they came into the world with their open
Spleens [image next page]. The Splenic Center is the immune system. Its entire
focus is survival oriented. It is the source of intelligence in the sense that it is out
of the very fear for survival that intelligence is something that arises. Think about
what it means to be born with this white—not empty, not broken, it doesn't need to
be fixed. It‟s just a big receptor. Think about that baby. That baby with that open
Spleen doesn‟t feel secure. There is something uncomfortable for it. There is a
fear already in this infant the moment it comes into the world, this sudden
realization of the transformation of the environment.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
34
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
Let‟s say the mother is splenic and the mother embraces the child. The moment
the mother embraces the child and the child, in its openness, amplifies that
embrace, amplifies it. It can be amplified to a point of distortion. The child feels
safe, it feels secure. And oh boy, does it ever want to hold on to that. And mama
pulls away, needs a break and the baby starts to cry. That crying can become
panic. It becomes a mechanism for life.
Think about the mind making that decision. There you are with your open Spleen
with somebody who has a defined Spleen and they beat you up every night. And
your friends say to you that you‟re crazy, that you have to do something about this.
And the mind makes up a reason, because the open Spleen holds on to what isn‟t
good for it and makes a point of it. It will hold on to lousy—just about everything—
if you let it. And it‟s so hard to be clear. That open Spleen becomes so inflexible.
It holds on to its thing despite the obvious.
Do you want to live like that? That you‟re controlled by what you are not? That
you give up your whole life for that, to be a victim, to be abused? This is not
insane. I‟m not talking about something that is rare. I‟m talking about something
that is epidemic. You can't imagine the hundreds of millions of human beings who
are holding on to the most incredible things. And they think that's what they're
about, that that's what their life is for, and that‟s who they are. It comes from
their mind, and they believe it. It‟s their mind. They believe it. They don‟t know
how it works. Living your life, to define yourself through taking pain, suffering and
never getting a chance to live what it is to be you.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
35
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Sacral Center: Not Knowing When Enough is Enough
We have three different types that are presented in these illustrations—the
Manifestor, the Projector, and the Generator, a Manifesting Generator in this case.
It‟s one of those things that is a commonality between the Manifestor, the Projector
and the Reflector is that they have undefined Sacral Centers. It is one of the more
fascinating things about the nature the dynamic of the way in which life on the
plane operates, to understand how significant Generators are to the world.
Manifestor
Projector
Manifesting Generator
They are about two-thirds of the planet. They are the great generating force of life
on this planet. Their not-self theme is frustration. Every time they follow that
openness, every time they don't respond, that's the moment the theme of
frustration is something that envelops everyone on this planet. We live on a plane
of deep frustration.
The open Sacral Center is an interesting thing because it says something so deeply
about the non-sacral beings, something very simple: they need to conserve their
energy. If they don't conserve their energy, they will be really messed up, not
knowing when enough is enough. Their not-self minds say, “Come on, keep doing
it, keep doing it, keep doing it. You be a super slave, you keep doing it, don‟t
quit.” Mind won‟t let you quit. You can drop dead, frankly, and the mind won‟t let
you quit.
So, you have all of these non-sacral beings who are basically exhausting their
systems, most commonly in the way in which they approach sleep. Following the
direction of your not-self mind, this mind that is so deeply attracted to the genetic
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
36
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
imperative, ultimately what it does is damage both psychological and physical. The
homogenized life is not a pleasant thing. We see that. We see what the world is,
the billions who are hungry, and the mad creatures on this planet who would kill
each other for any particular reason. We live on a plane in which the material
wealth on this planet is so bizarre in the way in which it is distributed that it's hard
to even understand how it survives. And we're living in a time of enormous
transition.
We are Here to Display Our Unique Truth
To be caught up in this homogenized world and in its madness is what happens
when you follow the dictates of your mind. It is not you. It is not speaking for you.
It is obeying outer authority from somewhere else. It is obeying the authority of
what conditions you. It is obeying the habits that have been established in you
through what has been conditioned in you. It‟s killing you. It‟s turning your
intelligence into a joke, because intelligence without awareness is just a bad joke.
It‟s what happens when you think that your mind is going to guide you to the
promised land. It‟s not equipped.
And aside from all of that, what about you? This thing that stands in the way
stands in the way of you, of you discovering you. This is what this is about. What
this knowledge is about is stripping away the layers and layers of ignorance so you
can get to your place, a place of uniqueness. This is a very special word. There is
no comparison. We are here to differentiate fully as a potential, each of us in our
unique way expressing ultimately what our unique truth is.
But to live as an individual, to be someone who lives by their own authority, that
takes a lot of serendipity. It truly does. It's not for everyone. It's not like you
have a choice. All of you have an illusion that you have a choice, that you're here
by choice, and that you can do this by choice. It‟s such a joke. It‟s just a movie,
after all. The passenger can watch all of this. It‟s your serendipity to be here. It‟s
your good fortune.
It is something to grasp about this relative to everything else, because it does not
say that anything here is to be believed. It never has. And nobody can bring you
to this truth but you. We don‟t sing as a chorus here. It‟s just you. It‟s an
experiment, after all. It demands little else than the commitment to the
experiment, and then it‟s up to you, whatever that is, a door that opens for your
possibility.
It‟s mechanical. Until you experiment with the mechanics you will not know. You'll
begin to understand that when you follow your Type and your Strategy, the Inner
Authority, you‟ll begin to see the shift. You'll begin to see differently, because you
begin to slowly get acquainted with yourself. You never lived as yourself. Human
beings spend most of their lives being nothing but not-self. There are very few
exceptions. This is our world.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
37
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Head Center: Thinking About Things that do not Matter
One of the amusing things for me is to think about the whole construct mentally,
the thing about these two centers. The Head Center, thinking about things that
don‟t matter. Seventy percent of humanity has an open Head Center. “Honey, the
house is on fire.” “Sorry, I‟m thinking about something that doesn't matter.” This
could change your life. Yeah, I know but I‟m investigating this particular exotic
nuance, whatever it may be. That‟s seventy percent of humanity; seven out of
every ten of you, including myself. Think about it.
Then you wonder why the dinner table conversation, the coffeehouse conversation
is rather banal. After all, the vast majority of human beings never think about
what matters. It‟s a funny way to make a decision based on things don't matter.
What about your life?
The Ajna Center: Pretending You are Certain
You know this one, don‟t you—pretending that you're certain. Oh yeah, I‟m
absolutely certain. There is absolutely no way that this is going to—boom. You
know these people. It‟s frightening to think about what happens to us out of
conditioning. It‟s frightening. There you are with your open Ajna Center and the
one thing you don‟t want to be in this life is embarrassed that you screwed up, that
you didn‟t get it right. And you hold on to that particular concept, whatever it
happens to be, and you hold on to it, and you hold on to it. You squeezed the
damn thing to death. It's not yours. It was never yours. And the concept that you
hold on to that you're so certain about is going to define your not-self life, which
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
38
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
means there you go off on that tangent pretending you're mentally certain about
things that don't matter. Well good for you.
Think about all those people out there like that. Oh boy, are there a lot of people
like that out there. They‟re everywhere. This is the world you live in. It‟s what
happens to a human being when they listen to what they are not, when that
becomes their guide, when that becomes their authority. It‟s not bad enough that
human beings accept overt authority from just about anything—lover, friend, dog,
state, religion. And then you take in, in this way, complete authority from others.
You never have a chance. It‟s so easy to move the sheep, the homogenized world.
This world is run on a half a dozen concepts; everybody in lockstep—this side, that
side.
This is a momentous opportunity to establish individual consciousness. It has
never, ever existed. You can‟t call the drib drab that comes out of somebody‟s not-
self mind a real expression of consciousness. It is not. And individual? It‟s all just
regurgitated over and over and over again. This knowledge is not just simply
heretical, it‟s radical. It says you have to be here for you. That if you‟re not going
to be here for you, if you're not going to live this life according to what is your
authority, then go back out there into the zoo, because what's the point. The not-
self has never derived any point other than to suggest that perhaps after death
something cool might happen. Give me a break.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
39
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The G Center: Trying to Find Direction and Love
One of the amazing things about the beginning of awareness is about movement.
It's about understanding what we are, that we are objects moving in space. It
means that where we are is really everything for us. And it means that how you
get there, the decision you make, this is your navigation. The moment you‟re
navigating out of your not-self, you‟re off on a lost track and you're far away and
not pointed at what is possible for you.
In so many ways this can be expressed so deeply in those who have an undefined
G Center, an open G, the G Center and its themes of love and direction, how the
mind can be tormented by that. How, because of that openness, that it is unable
to fully recognize when love is actually present, unable to recognize when they're in
the right place because that's not where they‟re looking. And even if they stop for
a moment and see it, there‟s always the assumption that they‟re somewhere else.
Oh, it can be quite a painful process, deep.
And what do they want? They want the direction. They want the love. They‟re the
ones who end up telling you where it's supposed to be as if they actually know for
themselves. They don‟t. Every time you make a decision, every time you navigate
with your mind, you navigate away from who you are. Identity is not the point for
an undefined G Center. It is simply interesting, but it‟s not the point. Openness is
never the point. But it is certainly interesting. I enjoy my whiteness. It is deeply
entertaining, but it's not the point. The point is living what is correct so you can
actually become a passenger, a realized passenger, rather than being just another
extra on the stage of the homogenized world.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
40
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
The Root Center: Always in a Hurry to be Free
Imagine what that‟s like, people who can‟t stand being placed under pressure. The
hundreds of millions of beings who can't stand being placed under pressure, can‟t
handle being place under pressure, blow up or speed up, burn out, always in a
hurry. You know these people. You have one of these office jobs where everybody
gets a certain amount of stuff they have to do for the day, and you give it to one of
these people and they get it done in three hours and everybody is pissed, because
everybody else is going to be under pressure now to do what they do and nobody
likes that.
That‟s the kind of person everybody else in the office goes up to at the coffee break
and says, “Hey, slow down.” And they don‟t know how because they can‟t stand it.
They can get so bizarre that they can wake up in the morning and can't stand the
idea that they have to move through the day. It‟s not who they are. If they live
that, are they ever going to be a distorted being. I know, I have an undefined
Root, I know what it is. I have an undefined Sacral, I know what it is, and I know
what it does. Awareness is the only thing that heals. Nothing else heals.
Awareness heals.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
41
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Solar Plexus Center: Avoiding Confrontation and Truth
I guess there‟s no other place where, other than the ego, the Heart Center, the
not-self is so dominated by a conditioning force. And I‟m speaking of the Solar
Plexus Center, the emotional system in humanity. Fifty-one percent of humanity is
emotionally defined. Forty-nine percent are not. It means that forty-nine percent
of humanity amplifies the emotional wave. The Solar Plexus Center, the emotional
system as it is, is something that operates a motor wave up and down and back
again.
To be somebody with an undefined emotional system is to take on and amplify that
wave. Most of the real serious impacts of the emotional plane are exaggerated and
sometimes disastrously so through those with an open Solar Plexus Center. And
you can see how powerful it is in terms of what it creates for the not-self mind as a
tool, this avoiding of confrontation and truth. You live this long enough, and you
have no idea what the truth is at all. It becomes all fabricated. It becomes all
chimeras. It becomes your own illusions mounted on illusions.
You can imagine what happens to the child—always think about designs in terms of
your childhood. It‟s when all this got to you, changed you, moved you away from
your possibility, and encrusted you with all the conditioning. Think about the child
with the open emotional system. Think about the parent who is emotional and is
upset. The child is going to have to deal with that wave. It‟s going to amplify that
wave. It's going to feel it in a deeply intense way.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
42
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
One of the things that the child is immediately going
to learn how to do is avoid confrontation. In other
words, get the hell out of the way when the wave is
there. It eventually leads to not rocking the boat.
There‟s a smile, I know it so well, the smile of the
open Solar Plexus. It‟s a smile that says, “Hi, I‟m
really very nice but frankly you scare the hell out of me so I'm really just going to
go my way and I hope that‟s not going to bother you at all, ciao.”
You Cannot Escape What You Are
Now, think about your life that way. Think about what happens to you when your
not-self mind takes over your life because of things that you are not and makes
them a big deal. Oh I know. I have an open emotional system. It wreaked havoc
in my life. You can't escape what you are. You can‟t escape the way in which we
are structured. You can‟t, but you can be smart. You can take advantage. What
the mechanics provide is a way to take advantage, a way to see this and look at
this and say, “I do not want to live this, that I live my life for everything but me
and I actually believe all that stuff.”
I want to see what‟s possible. You‟re unique. The possibilities are endless. Who
knows? It is an extraordinary journey, this journey, this deconditioning, this
peeling away all the authorities that have ruled your life, all of them. No rule by
gods or authorities or humans. It‟s just you. Nobody has a right to control your
movement in this maya. Nobody.
We are Passenger Consciousness
If there is any true purpose at all, it is that in finding what is truly your
differentiation, your uniqueness and its expression, this is what it‟s about. It isn‟t
about what goes on in the flesh. This is the trap. When you turn over the decision
making authority to your vehicle, you can sit back in the backseat as a passenger.
We are passenger consciousness. We are visitors. These forms offer us
opportunities, fading opportunities, terminal opportunities, but there is no
opportunity if we get caught up in this primitive bio-mechanism and the way in
which it works. It's a mammalian form. It has an evolved trip. I let the vehicle do
its thing. It‟s not the point. The point is to experience consciously this plane as
yourself, able to navigate on this plane as yourself without having to be occupied
with that.
The vast majority of human beings on this plane cannot afford to be educated.
They can‟t. And whatever education is available to them is not the education that
is going to be able to transform their consciousness. And we are running out of
time. This is the gift as the sand moves through, this beautiful possibility to be
able to live what is your potential, not some homogenized “this or that,” but
something singular, something unique.
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
43
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
It goes back to the same thing. It always goes back to the same place. It‟s where
I have been in my process from the beginning. The mechanics are simple, deeply,
deeply, deeply simple; and yet, this not-self mind truly stands in the way. And you
cannot confront it. There‟s nothing you can do within its own context. You have to
go around. It‟s what the mechanics show. You give authority where the authority
belongs. You strip the mind of its addiction to your openness. And you give it
something entertaining to see.
The Throat Center: Trying to Attract Attention
I don‟t want to leave out the Throat Center. I don‟t have an example in these three,
but you can see clearly what that is all about. Those beings who are driven to
attract attention, driven to make decisions based on whether something will attract
attention or not.
Life is Built on One Decision at a Time
Remember that human beings are complexities of these things. They begin to
multiply. You can see the way the decision making gets distorted. They‟re trying
to prove they can find the direction to love by holding on to what isn‟t good for
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
44
THE NOT SELF
What Stands Between You and Transformation
them. It goes on and on. And you can basically just weed out most of the
homogenized planet and the way they think. It‟s sad.
But yet, here we are. And all of this is to simply reaffirm the same thing that I
have been reminding students for a very long time. It is simple, what we do. It is
a simple truth that life is built one decision at a time. It is the only way your
life is built. It is built on one decision at a time. And the secret is to make the
decision as yourself, and not to make the decision because of what you think you
think you think you should or could or might or would be. That‟s all.
And it‟s not like there isn't a guide. There is. Each being has a generic way in
which they can approach decision making correctly. Every decision you make as
yourself, each one you make as yourself, moves you further and further away from
the horror of what it is to be homogenized sheep. And it opens up something very
spectacular, something special. It‟s you.
What Stands between You and Transformation: Strategy and Authority
From the beginning, I have been teaching people to love themselves. You cannot
love the not-self. It is never ever, ever, ever, ever worthy of love. But as you can
discover, to truly love yourself is something very, very beautiful, to trust what it is
that you are, to trust that you can stand alone. It does not mean you are without
others or love or all these things.
It means you live by what is correct for you. In doing so, you begin to see the
being you are. You can then begin to find that love. Out of that love grows many
things, the beauty of what it is to be here. And more, the magic of what can
happen to mind when it's no longer a fool, when it is no longer lost in what does
not matter, when it becomes an agent for the beauty of the potential of filtering
consciousness. What real outer authority means when it can be expressed. So,
that thing that stands between you and transformation, it‟s easy: Strategy and
Authority.
Okay, I want to thank all of you. It was nice that you were all here. I hope you
enjoyed that. I‟m sure that in the not too distant future we will add it to our
collection of transcripts of these lectures. This is my last teaching for the season,
so I‟m going to go on vacation and nice to share that with all of you.
Anyway, enjoy your summer. Do take care. Bye for now.
~
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
45
THE DIFFERENTIATION LECTURES
A Free Digital Book for Newcomers
The Differentiation Lectures is a program of the International Human Design School (IHDS)
All Rights Reserved. Copyright 2008 Jovian Archive Corporation
46