HOW WE CONNECT
A transcription of the Valentine Day’s Event by Ra Uru Hu
on February 14, 2010
Welcome to all of you. Nice that you are here for this Valentine’s Day event.
We are going to look at how we connect to each other.
Everything about Human Design is not about partnership. As a matter of fact it truly is a secondary
thing. Everything about the nature of Human Design is about the potential of the differentiated
unique being. This is what we are here for. This is what we are all about. At the very core, at the
very nature of what we are as a being, lies the potential for us to fulfill whatever our uniqueness
happens to be and to be able to do that while living successfully on this plane.
One of the things that you get to see immediately in the nature of being is that we are in these
bioshells and the life program is very specific. The life program says that the only way in which we
are going to survive is that we need to reproduce and that everything about the way in which we
are going to operate in the world is that we are going to be controled by receptors.
Think about your design. I mean, the graphic. You look at the graphic and what do you see? You see
things colored in. Every single one of those things that are colored in is the nature that is there in
you, that is it is the genetic predisposition to your potential uniqueness. But the majority of the
things that are there are white. They are just white; white centers, white gates, white channels.
They are not empty, they are not broken, they don’t need to be fixed. They are graphic metaphors
of receptors. Most of what we are – is receptors. What we are most receptive to, aside from the
program itself, is the other.
And because we have a biological imperative, an imperative that says we must bond, that we must
mate, that we must reproduce. This is something that is deeply embedded in the genetics of the
specie. That it is something that we, in most cases, helplessly deal with.
The beauty of Human Design begins with something very simple. It is the surface of the knowledge.
The surface of the knowledge says that you can operate correctly on this plane if you take the
responsibility of making decisions away from your mind and you give it to your Strategy and
Authority, that is you give it to your vehicle. That’s what your vehicle is for. It’s an incredible
intelligence that is here to operate on this plane and to operate successfully. It is not that we are
here to ignore the receptors because after all this is what life is. This is how we connect to life. It’s
how we connect to being. It’s how we connect to everything.
One of the basic things that you learn in Human Design is that the very thing that conditions you at
the start becomes your wisdom when you get to the other side of the process. Because after all they
are receptors. When you are looking at your design, all those things that are colored in, you can
think of that as the student and everything that’s white is where you go to school. It’s the things
that you are here to learn in life. Most human beings, the vast majority of humanity are just simply
overwhelmed by where they go to school. They get lost there. Who they could be, might be is all
gone because it’s so easy to get lost in the conditioning.
What I want to share with you today are some basic formulas. They are just formulas.
There is something to understand about mechanics. It’s why mechanics can liberate the spirit
because the moment that you see mechanics, there is that chance, that serendipity that for you in
that moment you can release yourself from the great curse of all bonds. The great curse of all bonds
is: you have to be different. That other, if only they could be like this or they could be like that. If
only you would change. If only you would pay more attention to me. If only we could do this or that.
If only we could be like this or that.
The moment that you get into mechanics, you get into helplessness. The only thing that protects
you in terms of relationships in your life is not what the relationship is but how you got there.
Because if you don’t get there correctly, you are always doing maintenance. Always. The first thing
to understand about mechanics is that when you get to see it, all you can do is go ’Oh, my
Goodness! Well, all right. What am I gonna do?’ Nothing. Because it’s nobody’s fault. It’s not about
blame. Relationships are built on these little dollops of blame that get stored away. These concepts
about the way somebody is supposed to be.
Think about the way we work. We have stuff that’s colored in and we have things that are open;
this whole nature–nurture process. But I want you to grasp something about conditioning and
something that’s really, really important, is that we are not simply the victims of conditioning. We
put it out. We don’t just take it in, we put it out.
It’s a fascinating thing when you can begin to recognize who you are and what you put out and what
you are not and what you take in. Or in another way,: what you put out – that is always consistent
and what you take in - that is inconsistent. We are constantly in this tension. This IS the Maia. It’s
the Maia but it’s not for getting swallowed in. It’s not for getting messed up in. It isn’t. It’s for
navigating through. It’s for the journey. It’s for the extraordinary voyage of discovery. It’s for this
incredible cognitive experience to be self-reflected consiousness on this plane at this level. Wow!
What a trip! Yet the majority of humanity is simply locked in ancient survival mechanisms and
conditioned and conditioning. The homogenized pool of the planet, the way it functions, rising and
falling on the program.
Now I want you to think about that open center and I want you to watch this flow of energy and
understand something: when you put energy inside of somebody, it isn’t the way you experience it.
It isn’t. It’s amplified.
So you’ve got an idea because you’ve got a fixed mind. You’ve got a fixed concept of one kind or
another and you are with this person and you are talking to them about this fixed concept and you
put this fixed concept in their head and they are open. They don’t just take it in. It becomes a big
deal. It gets amplified. It becomes MORE, if you will. It gets elaborated on. It gets all kinds of stuff
added to it.
Think about it physically. Nearly two thirds of humanity are Generators and on the other side you
have the three types: the Projectors and Manifestors and Reflectors, who do not have defined
Sacrals and they are always taking in the Sacral frequency and they are always amplifying it. You
want to see the most powerful Generator? I mean they don’t live long but you can see them. It’s
those not-self open beings amplifying all of that sacral energy. It’s not theirs and they cannot
replenish it and they cannot stay healthy with it. So it goes back and forth.
Now, in Human Design, I guess the most extraordinary thing because you really don’t have to be …
what do they say, a brain surgeon, a rocket scientist. It’s two pictures, same graphic background. In
those two pictures you get to see what happens when you bring them together.
In this case what you are looking at here, is that one of them represents … you can see for example
this side over here – you can see it expressed in the green over here and this over here you can see
expressed in the blue over here. So you’ve got the the green and the blue forces over here that
come together and make something else.
So I’m going to show you now four basic formulas. They are basic but like all simple things, they
carry a tremendous amount of truth. Of course, in terms of mechanics you get to see what happens
to you when you enter into a bond with somebody.
Think about it this way: you’ve got two ways in which it’s going to work.
• You are going to enter into the bond as not-self which means you are going to be drawn by
the conditioning, whatever the conditioning happens to be and you can see that there are
all kinds of mutual conditioning that goes on in this relationship.
• The other side is – you are going to enter into correctly this relationship. Now that’s
something totally different. It really is. Because you enter in as yourself and as such you
are able to take in the other.
It is something that is so important to understand about being yourself and that you can make a
decision that is correct for you, in terms of who you bring into your aura. Most people don’t. So you
end up in configurations when they are not correct that become deeply distorted.
Think about this image, this one, down here. What you get to see in this image is that when these
two beings come together, every single one of the centers, all of them, all 9 centers get colored
in. So if you take your design and you put it togerther with somebody else’s design and all the 9
centers get colored in – this is called 9 and 0 and as you can see THERE’S NOWHERE TO GO.
Now think about how uncomfortable that can be and think about how wonderful that can be. I
mean, after all it is about this and that, isn’t it? But it’s a 9 and 0. It means that when the two of
you are together, nobody else can get in. Not only that but when the two of you are together, it’s
hard to get away. You get locked into each other in a way that can be healthy or not. It depends on
the level of awareness in the relationship. But there isn’t anything you can do about that. A 9 and 0
is a 9 and 0.
You end up in a 9 and 0 relationship with somebody who is difficult and abusive, whatever the case
may be, not such an easy thing to get out. You end up in a 9 and 0 relationship and all of those
friends that you seem to have had in your life, who were part of your social dynamics, suddenly
disappear because you are caught in a 9 and 0.
These are mechanisms. You can’t do anything about it. You can’t be in a 9 and 0 and the whole
theme of your relationship is `Let’s make room for somebody else’ - because it does not work. It’s
just a mechanical thing.
If you are not meant for that, if you get drawn into a relationship through the conditioning, through
the way in which homogenized relationships work and you end up in a relationship that you
discover very quickly isn’t necessarily for you - this is very difficult. Not only that but you often end
up with partners that can be deeply disturbed by having the relationship come to an end. It is
something to recognize. You see, to be helpless in one of these relationships – this is a very painful
thing. It is. It has the capacity to really altering the way in which that couple is going to operate. It
does not just have to be a couple. It can be those beings that are friends and everybody else can’t
get in. It can be those working associates that really bond deeply to each other and trade off their
own stuff together and there are all these levels that it works at.
The only answer is not `Oh, I’m in a 9 and 0 and I don’t like it’. Or `I’m in a 9 and 0 and I’ve lost all
of my good friends and what can I do?’
That is not what this is about. It’s a mechanical thing. There are beings that are supposed to be in a
9 and 0 relationship that are absolutely perfect for them because that’s where they are supposed
to be. That’s what’s really correct for them in terms of the way in which they are designed to
connect to the other. Remember, it does not mean that if you connect with your partner or a friend
and it’s a 9 and 0, that you are going to be a 9 and 0 with anybody else. It does not work that way.
You begin to see when you start looking at your design and the design of the people in your life, you
begin to see very quickly that there are all these different formulas that emerge out of these
relationships and they change the way it works.
If you’ve got a 9 and 0 relationship with a friend, no sense inviting somebody else to join you to go
out. It’s not the kind of thing that is going to work. It just isn’t. It’s like trying to break up a
friendship of one of your kids with somebody because you don’t particularly like them, or whatever
the case may be – and they are a 9 and 0. You watch and see what kind of a dilemma that’s going to
bring. So it’s a mechanical thing to be aware of.
All right, again. We have the same formula, we are bringing two beings together and all we are
looking for again, very simple on the surface but it tells you a great deal about the nature of the
relationhip. So here’s what you can see is an obvious. We have an 8 and 1, and you can see, HAVE
SOME FUN. Now why `have some fun’? You know, the thing to recognize about being a couple and
you have an open center is that you’ve got something that the two of you can be open to together.
You are going to be able to develop areas of common interest and those areas of common interest
are something that bind you to the outside world together.
So in this case the two of you are taking in the Splenic phenomena of the world and your own
particular designs in relationship to that because together you have an undefined Spleen. But the
moment that you have this single window, there’s a way of getting out of the relationship and into
something else. Something that they can share from their different perspectives, not like the 9 and
0 where you are locked in so deeply. You know but here’s that place where you can do things
together, you can go out together, you can work together and discover things together. The 8 and 1
is something that is a very healthy kind of bond between two beings.
By the way there’s something to keep in mind. If you look at this particular design you will see that
this is actually a very odd design. Because in fact there is a triple split definition here; three
different parts that are not connected to each other. When you have a relationship like this that is
built on splits it is very, very difficult - to maintain balance in the relationship, because there are
many disconnects. For a relationship like this, if it was just a couple, no children, the only thing you
can recommend to them is to find that thing that the two of you really love to do. And find that
thing out in the world so that you can be a part of things together. That helps them in terms of
bringing these parts of their design together, so they have a more, deeper sense of their connection
to each other. Again, it’s a mechanical thing. If the splits are there in the relationship it means
there are aspects of the way in which you connect to each other that do not connect to each other.
It’s going to represent certain dynamics for the relationship that are going to cause tension.
In the not-self world it’s one of the most common things; relationships with splits, when couples
don’t really feel connected to each other. It creates all kinds of problems because they don’t
understand why. They assume it’s the fault of the other. It isn’t, it is just mechanics. The moment
that you see the mechanics, doesn’t mean you fix anything. You surrender. There is nothing to fix.
Nothing to fix in the sense that you can change the mechanics. You can’t. You can change the way
you live the experience of being in that relationship or you can leave it but there’s no fixing.
Because there’s nothing to fix. It simply is what it is.
7 and 2 work to do. The work to do is that if you are a 7 and 2 relationship, and here you can see
that this relationship is a single definition, and so it is a fully integrated relationship and if you look
at this you can see that there are two centers open. The moment you have two centers open, it
means that the couple can end up having different interests that ultimately send them apart from
each other. So the moment this kind of relationship has a problem, one partner goes out this
window and one partner goes out that window. These are partnerships where partners learn how to
escape each other most of the time. And they escape each other most of the time with their
particular interest. ’No. Sorry, I’ve gotta work’ or ’I’ve gotta do this thing’ or blah blah blah,
whatever the case may be. There is a window they go out of in order to NOT get into this.
The other side of that again, by the way, if I’m talking about the not-self, every single one of these
mechanics is a negative. At some level or another it’s going to bring out negatives because there’s
no understanding and ultimately without understanding in relationships – all you get is a power trip.
However the power trip is played out, male/female roles, all that stuff, it’s just that. It’s a power
trip and it’s cruel because there’s nothing to change. Anybody who wants to change you, is the
enemy. You know, this is not what existence is about, we are NOT here to be changed by somebody.
We are here to be ourselves. We are not here to obey somebody else’s demands because they have
a specific need to mold our life in a certain way to satisfy themselves. We forget all that. All of that
is real insanity. This is all power trip stuff. See, this is mechanics. We are helpless in these
mechanics. It’s not like you can do anything about this, that this one is going to go out here and
that one’s going to go there. But if the bond between them is healthy and aware, this will be part
of their relationship. Yes, they do have these separate interests but these separate interests aren’t
separating them because it isn’t an issue. That one is over here and the other one is over there.
It’s not `You are over there to avoid me’ or `You are over there to be away from me’. Because it
isn’t. It’s just what this kind of relationship offers. You can see that the mechanics is very simple –
it just gives you the basic formulas. The 9 and 0s have to be totally locked in. So you have to see
that there has to be a fundamental dynamic in your design, that this is part of what your cognitive
exploration is on this plane – so deeply connected to another human being to take in that deep
experience of the other.
You can see that in the 8 and 1 you have something very different. What you have is the beginning
of this kind of generational interest field. This window is open for couples to go out into the world
to join others, to do things and all that stuff. You know, to be involved with each other at that level
to gain that appreciation of each other. Obviously there are very positive things in that.
The same thing here. You have to see that at the not-self level these dynamics create all the
dilemmas that are there. It’s the foundation of them. These are not beings that entered
relationships correctly, they find themselves in a 7 and 2. They may not be built for that. Just
because they end up in it, doesn’t mean it was meant for them, they didn’t enter into it correctly.
And they may end up with somebody who is REALLY into that and the relationship is going to be
problematic.
Happy Valentine’s Day! Never mind. My sense of humor.
6 and 3 is always fascinating. 6 and 3 better to be free. For some people this is a classic. If it is
really in your nature to be not really connected in a relationship but still in a good relationship,
which is quite a thing to think about, the kind of thing that hippie propaganda was about 40 or 50
years ago, whatever that was, 6 and 3 is an interesting thing but for the not-self it’s a disaster. For
the not-self it’s always a problem. There are so many ways to go, there’s so much distraction in the
relationship that it’s very difficult for these couples to pay much attention to each other.
Then again, if it is really in your nature to have that kind of a relationship where you can spend a
great deal of time in your own thing, in your own space and only connect every once in a while for
the value of that connection – then this is something that can be perfect for you.
In other words, these are the basic mechanics for the kinds of connections that we have with each
other.
Remember something. Human Design says that if you are going to live by your mind – you are going
to have a homogenized life. You have to get to the point where you grasp that the mind has been
involved in trying to deal with things that it cannot, in any way, truly deal with. It can’t. This is the
blackest joke of all. That the mind is not able to change any of this. It CAN’T. All it does is create
the suffering, the pain, the anguish, the anger, the frustration, the bitterness, the disappointment,
all of those things and what we end up with is a catalogue of beings for whom the biggest pain in
their existence is having to deal with relationships and this is not what we are here for. Nine-
centered beings are here to be cognitive, we are here to commune and share our outer Authority
and our intelligence with each other. We are here to be deeply respectful of the other human being
because we accept them for what they are, whatever this thing is. You can’t do anything about
that, you cannot change that. You cannot make them into something different. They connect to you
the way they do and the results are what they are. And you sit back in the passenger seat in
awareness and you watch the movie, your movie, you are the star, and see what it is to be here on
this plane as you. Because if you trust in your Strategy and Authority, if you take away the decision
making process from your mind, you get to enter into things the way you were intended to. You get
to meet those beings that you are intended to meet and the combinations that are absolutely
correct for you. Because this is what we are here for. Think about it. The mind, in trying to control
the life and organise the life, becomes a liar automatically. It’s what the mind does best – it lies. It
lies to protect itself. It cannot fully tell any truth because it holds back this or that or doesn’t say
something. It can never truly communicate with the other. It can never really be free of that barrier
that stands behind it and says `We’d better be careful what we say here because …’ Don’t trust the
mind to run your life. All you do is allow the mind to become the greatest distortion.
OK. So I’ve shown you one set of formulas.
Now I’m going to show you another and it is one that takes you a step deeper into the way in which
we bind with the other.
This is the way in which we connect in the channels themselves, specifically. Not looking at the
surface and looking at the centers, but simply looking directly at the way we connect with another
human being in a channel.
So here is what is called electromagnetic. Now, electromagnetic is when you have a gate at one end
of the channel and the other person has the gate at the other end of the channel. In other words
you both are missing that aspect. And because we are built on receptors – that’s something where
this 59 is always interested in 6s and this 6 is always interested in 59s. There’s a hook. When the
two of them meet and step into each others aura, what happens is that we get an electromagnetic
definition, that is we get a wiring between these two centers.
Electromagnetic is ATTRACTION AND REPULSION. It’s BOTH. We live in a dualistic construct, in the
yin and yang, the DNA and the RNA. The electromagnetic is the attraction that pulls you to
somebody. You go `Oh, oh, oh.’ You step into that aura and you go `Ah, that’s what I want at the
other end.’ The other one at the other end says `Oh, oh, oh I want that at the other end’. And then
they come together and within an hour, a week, a month, at some point that thing that they have
over there, that they thought was so great, - Jesus, it’s a pain. Attraction and repulsion, and it
never stays one or the other. It fluctuates back and forth. That thing that you thought was so sexy
or terrific, all of a sudden is NOT. You have to understand the joke that you’ve got hard wiring over
here and there are 1,069 I think, possibilities that are at the other end. That’s a lot of variety. And
even though this was `oh, oh, oh,’ at the beginning, there is also this variety that is out there that
this example is not the definitive example of.
The electromagnetic connection is very strong and can be very powerful in a relationship - this
attraction field – repulsion field. You love to hate them, you hate to love them. All that stuff is
rooted in the electromagnetic.
Compromise is nasty, it is a burn in your side. It’s a thorn in your foot. Think what this is really like.
Here is Miss Wonderful over here and she has the definition here in this whole channel, and here is
Mr. Wonderful and he has part of this channel. They get together and you get this compromise. You
can see there is still this whole channel that is being controlled by Miss Wonderful and there is this
12 that is interspersed in here. No matter how much this 12 would like to CONTROL anything in this
channel – it CANNOT because the control mechanism is here. For example the 22nd gate is the gate
of the left ear, the gate of listening. Very often it’s about listening to music or poetry. It has
romantic tendencies. For example here is this couple and 12 over here (Mr. Wonderful) says ’I want
to listen to blah blah’. And 12 over here (Miss Wonderful) the one who has the full channel says `I’m
going to listen to whatever I want to’. Now they don’t necessarily say it that way. The fact is that
no matter how the argument will go, in compromise it always leads to arguments.
Not only that, in this case if you had someone who was unemotional and she is emotional the
moment he would want to listen to something that she doesn’t want to listen to he would get the
emotional wave, at which point he would say `Yes, dear, whatever, you like’. It’s a mechanic. It’s
just a mechanism. It’s not like it’s her fault because truly it is NOT her fault. It’s nothing to do with
fault or blame. You cannot fault her ancestors, or her whole genetic history, because this is what
she is – she has the whole channel. You can’t blame him. He doesn’t know any better. It’s like every
time he wants to go down that road, somebody is trying to control how he gets to the end of it and
it begins to chew at him. This is compromise. So many relationships have compromise in the
construct, sometimes several in the construct.
Relationships are extraordinary things when you get to that place where you can just let go and
accept somebody’s design. Compromise in relationships for the mind is one of those annoying
things and it never stops being annoying to the mind. Because the mind enjoys digging into those
things and trying to use them as mechanisms to take control. I understand the helplessness of the
other. It mirrors mine. All I can do is embrace what’s there with awareness.
What I find in the compromise process in my life is that I’ve gone from the annoyance and at times
from anger, I’m a Manifestor, to the humor stage where it just got to be funny and finally to the
point now that it’s just a thing. I’m just aware of it and I stay away from the territory that draws it
out because there’s no point in indulging in a mechanism that you can never win. Unless you are a
masochist and you are designed to suffer in that way, please, by all means, enter into a relationship
that’s full of compromise and you’ll really get to see what that’s like.
You see, these are just things. It’s not about the person. Our relationships, these things that happen
to us when we connect to the other, that thing that becomes the two of us, it’s not something that
you can do anything with other than experience. That’s what we are here for. We are here to
experience this process cognitively. We are not here to be caught in the survival mental distortion
movie.
This is one of my favourites, this is dominance. Somebody has the whole channel and the other does
not have any. This person is taking in the whole experience of having these centers defined and
defined in this way and amplifying that.
The really interesting thing in relationships is, when I showed you earlier the 9 and 0 and 8 and 1,
and you look at them at that level, when they come together in the connection chart – there is this
THING there and that thing takes on a life of its own. It’s what you become as a couple, as friends,
whatever the case may be, whatever label you put on that relationship. It is that thing that you
become and you begin to see each other within that framework. Particularly, for example, the 9
and 0 is very locked into each other and see each other through that connection.
Think about what it is not to have dominance in your relationship. For example you don’t have a
dominance in relation to your partner and your partner has a dominance in relation to you. If you
don’t have that, neither one of you really know what each other is like away from each other. You
don’t. If you have a partner who has 28/38, the Channel of Struggle, and it’s dominance for you
because you don’t have any of that and if you meet somebody who just saw your partner looking for
their car keys – I’d say `Oh, yeah, that’s them’. Because the moment that you have dominance
from somebody, you really learn a great deal about whatever that thing is. It becomes something
that you’d identify very easily with that person. And identify with them in the sense that you have a
sense of them beyond the relationship. Most couples don’t have a sense of their partner beyond the
relationship. It’s really funny when you think about that. The only understanding they have is the
way they connect to that partner. And of course, given that they are not-self and they are all lost in
that, they have very little understanding of each other as a being.
Why do you think so many relationships get to the point when one of the partners is in the stage of
`This just doesn’t work’. They just get there.
And finally we have companionship. I have a wonderful companionship story for you. Seems like
aeons ago. I think it was 20 years ago. Not quite, it was in 1994. I was giving an analyst training here
in Ibiza where I live. I had three students. There were two of them that knew the third person but
those two never knew each other. Yet, as I got to meet them and got to go through their designs,
the first thing that I noticed was that these two women had the same basic design i.e. at the
surface level.They had the same birthday, they were born about 6 hours apart. There were some
minor things that were different on the surface but basically they were quite similar in the way they
were made up. The other thing is that they had both been sanyasins with Osho and they had both
been to India at the same time and they had both been at the same ashram at the same time and
never met each other. Anyway, there were all these coincidences and there they were, the two of
them in this class on either side of this person they knew mutually and this was a classic example of
companionship in the extreme. It is something that is really interesting about what happens with
companionship.
You go to a gathering, you know, friends are gathering or there’s an event that’s taking place and
you go in there. Now those beings who have a similar design to you, they are not going to be of
interest to you.
Why aren’t they going to be of interest to you? Because genetically they don’t make sense. The
genes don’t like companionship. The genes don’t like sameness. They don’t. The genes do
everything in their power to move us away from sameness which, by the way, can be deeply deeply
comforting and relaxing. They move us away from sameness and only gear us towards what we are
not. You know, only gear us towards all of the attraction out there for our receptors. So
companionship is something that is quite different and you don’t see necessarily, at least in my
experience, you don’t see a lot of companionship in relationships. But when it’s there, what you are
looking at, and of course this is very simple – you both have the same channel – is that you have
something deeply in common. I mean, deeply in common in your wiring. That is something that can
be the safe place in a storm for the two of you in your relationship. That is what companionship
brings. It brings, you know, it’s like that comfortable sofa. It brings all of the possibilities of feeling
secure and not being surprised by things and having things fundamentally stable. All of this is
something that is the byproduct of companionship.
The other side of companionsip is boredom. Because it’s the other part of it. That is, no matter how
stable the companionship, the stability companionship brings to a relationship, it still presents
dilemmas in terms of it’s not stimulating. It’s just not. And again, this is a mechanical thing. It’s
about understanding that if you are going to be in a relationship that is strong companionship, that
you have to expect that it’s not going to be an incredibly stimulating relationship. But then again,
that is not what it is for.
Remember, relationships are built on combinations of these things. A little bit of this and a little
bit of that. You know, a compromise here, some companionship there, some dominance over there.
There are all these combinations that are going to arise in your bonds with the other. So what do
you do with it? Because this is really what it’s all about after all. I mean, you know, you can sit
down and go through this material again and you can understand all of these basic mechanical
concepts. You can recognize them because, again, Human Design is not a belief system, it’s about
taking charts of people you know and look for yourself because you will discover so much about
what is there in those bonds, just from the simplest level. You know, to be able to see the kind of
mechanisms that are there so that you can let go.
I’m not somebody who really enjoys being in the repair job, that job of providing a solution for
problems in mechanics because it’s a terrible thing to try to do that. Because without awareness
there is not much you can do. In order to really have relationships that are correct for you,
you’ve got to enter into them correctly or confirm that they are correct for you in a way that is
according to your Strategy and Authority. Otherwise there’s no point in putting your energy into
disfunctional relationships. There isn’t. I mean, yes, you know I understand the world and I
understand all of these different kinds of bonds and the traps that they bring. I know the
responsibilities, the sentimentalities, all the various things that add up to the complexity of not-self
relationships and how they manage to survive with all their discomfort.
As I said from the beginning, I am not here to teach about relationships. That’s not what Human
Design is for. It’s very valuable as a tool to understand them, there’s no question about that. It’s
obviously part of the knowledge base that’s developed out of Human Design because whenever we
can be aware about our bonds, our connections to the other, this empowers our awareness. But you
have to realize , this is about YOU making the right decisions in your life, not YOU trying to fix
things that cannot be fixed. It’s about YOU making the right decisions in your life. This is what it’s
about. This is the great experiment of Human Design. This is what makes this thing different – is
that it works and you can find that out for yourself.
When you look at relationships, don’t get caught in the Maia fantasy personality business. Hold off
for a second. Strip it down to just its mechanics and see something. If you were truly here to be in a
relationship – then BE in the relationship. Allow it to be what it is. Be its witness as much as you are
a part of it. Because there’s nothing to fix or change. There’s only the experience of connecting
in a certain way to the other. If you enter into that correctly it’s a really enriching experience.
It’s profound. Then we get to see the beauty in the other because we are not trying to make the
other something that the other is not. That we are not refusing to see who is there. That we’re
always struggling for our control. See, forever the 7-centered being dreamed of being surrendered.
For us, it is something that is natural. It’s Strategy and Authority. This is what surrender is. It is
the mind surrendering control over your life. That’s what it is. The moment that you let go of your
mind running your life, it doesn’t matter what any of these things are. It doesn’t matter if you
connect this way or that way or the other way. You live as yourself, you enter into the relationship
as yourself and you experience it as yourself. Then you are there, no matter WHAT the relationship
is.
You see, we have to get to that place where we accept that life is blameless. No fault. No victims.
No dependencies. Just simply being correct as oneself. You know, I teach self-love. That’s my
Valentine’s Day message. When you can love yourself which means that you accept YOUR design
and the way it functions in the world, then you are ready to love anyone and anything. You know,
you can just let them be. And when you are correct, you get the correct experience for your
process. You do.
So yes, you can look at all these mechanisms. Remember that Human Design is a vast and deep
science now. There’s a tremendous amount of knowledge in this but this is not the point of Human
Design. It is what’s there to substantiate it in the now and into the future. The point is living it.
LIVE IT. Live the experiment. As you live the experiment you will begin to discern. It is this
discernment that’s everything. Because you can see these mechanisms you can understand that
every relationship is a constraint. Either a constraint that you embrace and surrender to or you
are going to be uncomfortable. .Like most people. In the complexities of their relationships as not-
self.
Well, I hope that you enjoyed all that and that it is of value to you. It’s my Valentine’s Day gift.
Human Design is a gift. It was a gift to me. A great treasure. It is an extraordinary thing for human
beings that are ready. It isn’t for everyone. It’ll never be for everyone. It’s for those that are ready.
That readiness is a serendipity. It’s a door opening slightly. It’s that moment of the possibility of
being able truly to go a different way. It’s time to go a different way. It’s time to go the way of
ourselves, what we are as beings, 9-centered beings. That we are here to be efficient survivors
– deeply cognitive and aware and capable of a deep communion with our fellows. It’s what it’s
all about. All of this comes from within each of you, each of us, one by one, individually, to live
the beauty of your Strategy and Authority – is to differentiate. It’s to go to that place where
nobody else can go, to follow the journey that is truly your journey, your path, your way. To be
the passenger of the truths that are discovered along the way and the communion that follows.
We are here to have special lives. We are here to be masters of the Maia, not bonds. We are here
to navigate with ease, to sail these neutrino seas and to sail them in delight, in wonder. I love
being here on this plane in this form now. Wow! Such a place to be! When all the secrets are laid
open at your feet and all you have to do is be ready. There has never been a time like this. There
has never been knowledge like this, ever.
You see, all it takes is the readiness to take that journey, to disconnect from the madness of the
not-self world and its not-self purposes, to rediscover the dignity of what it is to be you. It’s a
wonderful thing to love yourself. It truly is magic. I wish it for all of you on this Valentine’s Day.