Human Design Incarnation Report
For Dawn
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-23-4-43-49) 1-3
Cross of Exploration
This is a design of exploring your inner mind and hearing the voice of your soul. The exploration will be to
such a depth that it will be profound. The defined logic and abstraction processes grant a solid bed for
uncovering and intellectualizing self truths which you can speak and manifest with structure and utmost
clarity. This design lends itself to bringing ideas of the masses together thru the senses and understanding for
the use by the individual. The challenge in your design is to stop and listen to the outside voices when you
need to.
Projector: You must be invited
Gate of Assimilation #23 Gate of Formulization #4
You want to find the answer. Not just any answer but
Assimilation
the ONE answer.
Gate of Insight #43 Gate of Principles #49
Insight Principles
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Lynn
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-34-55-20-59) 1-3
Cross of the Sleeping Phoenix.
Just as the legend indicates the Phoenix is at rest until a call to action causes a burst of focused action that in
a sense creates a miracle. From such exertion the Phoenix bursts into flames and falls into ashes only to rise
again, sleeping waiting for the next call to action. The sleeping phase of the phoenix is a bit of a misnomer
in that this is the time for gathering skills, information, energy, experience or whatever is needed for the next
call to action. Your design brings the channel of mental clarity and a balanced emotional approach with a
deep sense of knowing in your soul. Your challenge is to overcome patterns which prevent you from being
prepared for the call to action. These might include fears that stem from your energies (of the gates of the
spleen , not being perfect, knowing the meaning of life, fear of change) that throw you out of balance and off
center.
Manifesting Generator – must wait to respond.
Gate of Power #34 Gate of Spirit #55
Power Spirit
Gate of The Now #20 Gate of Sexuality #59
This is the gate of seduction. It is the gateway to the
The Now
sacral sexual power.
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Michelle
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-41-27-31-28) 2-4
Cross of the Unexpected.
Sometimes patterns develop in people, communities, society and there is struggle to see anyway out. Your
cross of the unexpected is just what is needed to create the shift in reality so the solution can be seen. You
bring the energies of depth and talent, leading and caring to the cause. These energies have a design of deep
talent and come rapid fire. These are perfect for breaking illusions and barriers. Your two challenges are: 1
that you have some emotional drop offs that are brief but may be steep; 2 that your energy comes on so
strong to create, manifest the change that you must make sure you are responding and at times you take extra
steps to soften the force of your energy because it is so powerful. You have a design of self centering so if
you allow yourself to center you will know from the voice within.
Manifesting Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of Contraction #41 Gate of Caring #27
Contraction Caring
Gate of Leading #31 Gate of The Game Player #28
The Game Player
Leading
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Valerie
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-55-20-59-34) 1-3
Cross of the Sleeping Phoenix
Just as the legend indicates the Phoenix is at rest until a call to action causes a burst of focused action that in
a sense creates a miracle. From such exertion the Phoenix bursts into flames and falls into ashes only to rise
again, sleeping waiting for the next call to action. The sleeping phase of the phoenix is a bit of a misnomer
in that this is the time for gathering skills, information, energy, experience or whatever is needed for the next
call to action. Your design brings a broad blend of emotional energies from high to low, from tribal and
collective to individual into the creative process. Add to that skill and perfection and you have a broadly
sensitive creative process. Your challenge is to not just do it but to ride your emotional waves until you have
clarity. Then you may do it and will do it with better focus and results.
Manifesting Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of Spirit #55 Gate of The Now #20
Spirit The Now
Gate of Sexuality #59 Gate of Power #34
This is the gate of seduction. It is the gateway to the
Power
sacral sexual power.
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Debi
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (L-51-39-57-38) 5-1
Cross of Individualism.
There is the tribe, the collective(conscious), and the individual. Sometimes thru understanding one more
clearly you gain understanding of the other. You are here to show and speak to the world about what it is
like to live, know and experience life from the point of view of an individual. Your design is able to amplify
fear, emotion, sacral and task oriented energies so you can understand them as they relate to you and then
teach the world. Your challenge are to not live out these other energies that you amplify but only experience
them Be a screen not a sponge. Your other challenge is to know when enough is enough.
Projector: You must be invited.
Gate of Shock #51 Gate of The Provocateur #39
Shock The Provocateur
Gate of Intuitive Insight #57 Gate of The Fighter #38
Sometimes called the psychic gate. This gate is about This gate can represent a struggle or stubborness to
knowing in the now, fight for change. To strive to find meaning in life.
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Margaret
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-35-64-5-63) 3-6
Cross of Consciousness.
You are designed to be infinitely wise about the will and the ego. It is through this unlimited experience of
amplification of other people’s will centers (aka their ego) that you complete your understanding of
consciousness. Not just higher consciousness but all the levels in between high and complete lack of
consciousness. Your design is to speak and act with the power of emotions with a great balance and
understanding from the perspective of the collective consciousness. Your challenges will be to wait out your
emotional wave and to see your fears resulting simply from a lack of being centered.
Manifesting Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of Change #35 Gate of Confusion #64
Change Confusion
Gate of Fixed Rhythms #5 Gate of Doubt #63
This is the gate of doubt. It may often surface as self
doubt. These type of characteristics may surface when
Fixed Rhythms
you are not being yourself.
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Kim
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-22-45-47-26) 3-5
Cross of Rulership.
Now bow down people. JUST Kidding! You have the design to gather and rule the flock with openness and
powers of realization. Society can always use a role model of ruling no matter how big or small the role of
the ruler. So your flock may be 2 or 2,000 and your power comes from the ability to know yourself and
understand others thru your ability to amplify the emotions, fears, desires, thoughts and deeds. Your
challenge is you may at times lack sustainable energy and you need to make sure you don’t live the dramas
of others.
Projector: You must be invited.
Gate of Openness #22 Gate of Gatherer #45
Openness Gatherer
Gate of Realizing #47 Gate of The Egoist #26
Realizing The Egoist
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Katie
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (L-36-45-6-26) 6-2
Cross of Confrontation.
Confrontation often brings rise to images of battle. In your case this is not the way. Your confrontation
occurs through your infinite wisdom of the soul and the creative way you express and manifest
understanding of the soul in others. You are designed to connect people with their soul and then their soul to
spirit with unlimited inspirations to do it. Your challenge is to stay grounded and not lose yourself while
helping others.
Manifestor – Inform before you act.
Gate of Crisis #36 Gate of Gatherer #45
Crisis Gatherer
Gate of Friction #6 Gate of The Egoist #26
Friction The Egoist
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Deanna
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-20-59-34-55) 5-1
Cross of the Sleeping Phoenix.
Just as the legend indicates the Phoenix is at rest until a call to action causes a burst of focused action that in
a sense creates a miracle. From such exertion the Phoenix bursts into flames and falls into ashes only to rise
again, sleeping waiting for the next call to action. The sleeping phase of the phoenix is a bit of a misnomer
in that this is the time for gathering skills, information, energy, experience or whatever is needed for the next
call to action. Your design energies are focused to gather with openness to create and manifest change in a
perfect way. Your challenge is to wait out your emotional wave which may have some peaks and valleys.
Manifesting Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of The Now #20 Gate of Sexuality #59
This is the gate of seduction. It is the gateway to the
The Now
sacral sexual power.
Gate of Power #34 Gate of Spirit #55
Spirit
Power
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Nancy
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-37-16-40-9) 3-5
Cross of planning.
To bring about and execute a plan takes a design of talent. Your design brings this to the front. Aided by the
energies of the listener, the gatherer and focus you have an energetic gift to create and lead a plan for living
life as part of a small group tribe or the larger community. There are others that rely on your action to make
their action. You are an enabler. Your challenge is to not get under pressure answering others peoples
questions or problems. You have the energy to lead just make sure it doesn’t isolate you from those you are
leading.
Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of Friendship #37 Gate of Skills #16
Friendship Skills
Gate of Aloneness #40 Gate of Focus #9
Aloneness Focus
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Tara
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (L-47-5-22-35) 5-2
Cross of Separation.
Many times it is the understanding each aspect of the duality that we understand the other. Thru
understanding separation, isolation and loneliness we come to have a much greater understand of the beauty
of sharing and being part of the collective. You are here with infinite deep wisdom on not just what
separation means but how to un-separate or become a perfected part of the collective. In life the first thing
we experience outside the womb is separation. You are here to create and communicate in the wisdom of the
experience and how to get back to others so in the long run they see the beautiful magnificence of coming
together as one. Your open design gives you an ability to amplify others and understand their dilemmas.
Your challenge is to not lose yourself and to maintain your center though connection to the whole.
Manifestor – Inform before you act.
Gate of Realizing #47 Gate of Fixed Rhythms #5
Realizing Fixed Rhythms
Gate of Openness #22 Gate of Change #35
Openness Change
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Shelly
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (L-54-21-53-48) 5-1
Cross of Endeavor.
Perseverance is in your nature. You have the energy to initiate to get things going and march on until you
get things done. You have ambition to do it big and do it with depth and the energy of the huntress to keep
on the track. You have an open design with the ability to amplify emotions, the will, the intuition, the
inspiration and the soul of those around you. Your challenges are to not live out the energy of those around
you and to not get lost in those dramas. Be the screen and not the sponge, return to your center and you have
the endeavor to keep keeping on.
Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of Ambition #54 Gate of The Hunter/Huntress #21
This is the gate of big ambition. You like to do things
The Hunter/Huntress
in a big or grand way. Perhaps over the top?
Gate of Beginnings #53 Gate of Depth #48
You tend to do or analyze things in great depth. You
look at the size and scope of it all and work it in great
Beginnings detail. You may on occasion struggle with feelings
that your work is inadequate due to this drive to do
things deeply.
Human Design Incarnation Report
For Beverly
YOUR INCARNATION CROSS (R-17-52-18-58) 2-4
Cross of Service.
You are here to teach, inspire and or show humanity the value of service to mankind. You have an unusual
amount of defined energy available to communicate and create with. Inspiration, gathering, influence, create
change, to proceed cautiously, these are all aspects of your manifesting and communicating power. Your
challenges will be to stand without judgment and to ride your emotional cycle until you know which choice
is right.
Manifesting Generator – must wait to respond
Gate of Opinions #17 Gate of Inaction #52
Opinions Inaction
Gate of Correction #18 Gate of Aliveness #58
This is a gate of knowing the perfection. You know
Aliveness
how things are done perfectly.