Unified Life Sciences
A Revolutionary Approach to the Healing of Body, Mind &
Spirit
Tarot Key Correspondences in the Human Design Body
Graph
By Eleanor Haspel-Portner, Ph.D
Preface: Since being introduced to the Synthesis that Design represents, I wondered about
integrating the Tarot Keys into the Body Graph and into its system of knowledge. The
twenty-two cards of the Major Arcana (Greater Secrets) of the Tarot symbolically
represent the unfolding path of individuation or the unfolding inner process of
development in a person. These cards correspond to the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew
alphabet shown in the Kabbalistic Tree of Life. The Tarot Cards on this tree of
symbolically communicate interlocking layers of creation and their meaning. Once
deciphered, these Keys along with the Tree of Life become a shorthand language tying
them both to the inner unfolding human process. The Tarot speaks the symbolic language
in which direct knowledge is communicated through the collective archetypes to each of
us when we enter sleep or other dimensions of consciousness.
Because of my background in consciousness work as well as my familiarity with the
Tarot it became a challenge to me to decipher some of the correspondences between the
Body Graph and the Tarot Major Arcana. Early in my work in design I approached the
cards and they did not present me with any layout that made clear logical or intuitive
sense. As pieces began to emerge through my years of study I returned to the question of
the layout periodically. It was, thus, a delightful surprise when I approached the material
again recently and found that the layout presented itself with a simplicity and clarity that
rang true in many ways.
After sharing this information with those close to me I felt their intuitive confirmation of
its truth. I, thus, began working with the material privately. It clarified itself well and
seems to have validity in amplifying the meaning of the I-Ching Hexagrams in a
profound way. I presented this informal lecture at a meeting of a Unified Life Sciences
“think tank” on August 17, 2003. The material has been wonderfully received and it is,
therefore, time to present it to all of you for exploration as well as in the field of
hypothesis testing. I do not in any way propose that this is the only layout of the Tarot
Major Arcana in the Body Graph, but I think it is a valid one with which to begin
working.
Presented August 17, 2003, 10:00-12:00 am
Pacific Palisades, California
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
Note: The Layout of the Tarot Major Arcana in the Body Graph along with a Table of the
Gates, Keys, Hexagrams, and Gate Keynote correspondences can be found at the end of
this paper.
Lecture: The information that Ra told me was the only information he had about the
Tarot, and this is his statement from early 1998, was that the “voice” told him that all the
Major Arcana of the Tarot occur in the Ajna Center, the Throat Center and the G-Center.
After studying the Tarot in some depth as well as working with the Design Systems, I
finally recognized that Key 0 and the Key 21 both are in the Ajna Center. I initially
thought the correspondence had to be a Gate for a card, but then I realized that was not
the case. Since we know that the Channel 17/62 is the Portal between the Human Matrix
and the Mammalian Matrix, and also between the Human Matrix and the Angelic Matrix.
We begin our Tarot layout at this point. Then, we go around the Body Graph
counterclockwise. The Magician corresponds to Gate 62; place the High Priestess in Gate
16 and the Empress in Gate 20.
If you read my paper on Venus, you know that, in the past, I hypothesized without having
this layout that Venus would be in Gate 20. That position holds. Gate 16 is the High
Priestess, as I said before. It’s a very simple layout.
Trace counterclockwise around each Center. You’re going to go through the Channel
17/62 to the Throat starting with Key 1, the Magician, which starts the transformative
process in Gate 62. And, of course, the transformation as you go through the unfolding
process is from below and from above, and the information comes in from above, the
Mystical, Spiritual awareness shapes our cognition. After all, what happens to us on a
physiologic level and on a collective archetypal level is nonverbal and not translatable in
its raw form. Just like these cards, they are pictures; they don’t have words attached to
them. They are purely symbolic. When we attach words to them, they lose something in
the translation. It always is a frustration when you’ve had a numinous experience to try to
translate it into language.
When we move into that awareness with the cognition that we have in the Ajna Center,
we recognize the Ajna Center as the Center of Translation between the realms. It is the
Realm of Mercury, the Magician. We take what comes from the archetypal elements and
from the physiology and we put words to what our experience and our conception of it is.
We make and give meaning. That is a very human characteristic. It is what sets humans
apart from any other animal. Of course, it makes perfect sense that the Magician would
be in Gate 62, the Portal Gate of Transformation between the animal kingdom and the
human kingdom and between our capacity to tune in to spirit and explore experiences of
another dimension.
And then we move around the centers of the body graph; I did, of course, write the paper
on the Empress. What clued me in to the fact that the Empress card was in Gate 20 was
that it is the only Hexagram in the Throat Center that is feminine in both Lower Trigram
and Upper Trigram. I saw Gate 20, thus, as the source of the feminine energy from the
Mammalian Design up into the Throat Center, which could be transformative. It links to
2
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
the Solar Plexus through the Desire nature via Channel 36/35 and 12/22 because it has to
translate upward and downward.
Now, when I looked at this layout, I thought, “well, it makes perfect sense that the High
Priestess corresponds to Gate 16, because the High Priestess contains all memory and is a
card of remembrance and of the karmic past. So the High Priestess placed in the Gate of
Skills (Gate 16) would, of course, indicate that this Gate depends on your recollection of
the past. If we look, for example, at Alzheimer patients, they lose even the most basic of
skills. So any skill you have requires memory and experience. It has that information
stored in the pattern that describes how something operates. This placement makes sense.
Then, we simply move around. I can give you my thought process. Of course, the
Emperor, Key 4, would be Gate 31 because Gate 31 has to do with detail and order and is
exactly what the Emperor represents. It is opposite the Death card, Key 13, which, of
course, is transformation, and that’s what leadership and the alpha would be all about.
And you keep moving counterclockwise around the Centers.
I was a little surprised at some of the layout, like the fact that the Chariot ended up being
Gate 45. But when I thought about it and I thought about how that Gate operates and how
resources need to be utilized, the place that people get into difficulty occurs when they
use resources not as an expression but rather they identify the Self with the resource. The
Chariot, Key 7, shows us the correct alignment of Gate 45 and what its energy might be
talking about. There is great intelligence to the connection between the Chariot and Gate
45. I found it very revealing when I began to pair the cards in the layout with the
Hexagrams. It was surprising to me that some of the cards showed up where they did.
When I thought about it and tuned into it, I thought, “Oh, that’s what it really is telling
me.” It was very revealing to me in a very different way.
MARVIN: And that’s the magic of Tarot.
ELEANOR: Yes, it is. And, of course, I had hypothesized that the Wheel of Fortune
represented the whole G-Center. I don’t think that’s faulty, but I think that there are many
possible layouts. This is just one of them that tells us something about the energy of each
Gate. Then you have other layouts that are going to tell you different things with different
depths of interpretation.
Continue to go around counterclockwise. When you get to Justice, Key 11, which is in
Gate 23 in the Throat Center, you go straight down through the Hierophant, Key 5, to the
Hanged Man, Key 12. Come down through the Channel 8/1 and put the Hanged Man at
the 1st Gate, which makes perfect sense because actually you’re going to see then that the
Hanged Man has a foot in the 1st Gate. But if you put him in the whole G-Center, then
the Hanged Man tells you that the G (Self) Center has to be also a place of self-reflection,
and you get your direction by looking at how that operates in you. Of course, the 2nd
Gate is the Tower, Key 16, which makes sense, because you have to break away from
your own self-concept about your own direction and follow a path that comes from a
deeper layer and a deeper purpose. It makes sense.
3
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
I’m just going over the logic of the layout and asking myself along the way if these cards
make any kind of intuitive sense to me in the position where they are. As I was doing this
layout, I thought, “The simplest is always the most powerful.” And, I thought “this is
such a simple layout, what was I struggling with?” Of course, yes, the layout makes
perfect sense.
Now continue around and come down through the Hanged Man, and then go
counterclockwise again. Go from the 1st Gate, Key 12, to the 7th Gate, Key 13, to the
10th Gate, Key 14. Isn’t it beautiful that Key 14, Temperance is the card of the 10th
Gate? Indeed the Temperance card describes the process of tempering, balancing the Self
in all vehicles within in the process of mastery. And then Gate15 corresponds to the Devil
card. The card for the 15th Gate, the Devil, in the Mammalian Design is Keynoted,
“Chaos.” That’s exactly what we feel when we break away from our outer conception.
And, of course, that Gate is always about shifting us in the mix and establishing new
patterns.
It also certainly made sense to me that the Moon card, Key 18, corresponds to the 25th
Gate, the Gate of the Spirit of the Self and of one’s nature. Key 18 speaks about the
higher forms of consciousness that can manifest through bodily organs; in addition, sleep
is attributed to Key 18 since it is during sleep that our body structure is imprinted. Every
action and thought modifies body structure. The Moon, Key 18, is related to the path of
Return.
Then you arrive into the Center of the G-Center again as you finish the layout. When you
reach the Center of the G, you can either stop the layout there or you can go back up.
When you go back up, since the Design Crystal is in the Sacral Center, you can see the
two cards, Key 0 and Key 21 that are in the Ajna Center and also in the Sacral Center.
You move up through the 5th Gate that is the portal from the Sacral Center. When you
come around from below instead of going counterclockwise, go clockwise; now bring the
double helix back up through the Body Graph.
There is a key question that I have started to write a paper on that I have not yet finished.
I know there is a major transformational communication energy that has to happen every
night in us between the Sacral Center energy and the Ajna Center energy in order for us
to wake up in the morning and have even a slight recollection that we’ve been asleep.
Also, when we sleep neurological transformation happens between the Sacral Center and
the Ajna Center. We can then translate information from our sleep and dreaming states
into a new day and a new experience. We are here to integrate the collective archetypal
energies into our daily life and into our evolving consciousness. So, there must to be a
mechanism by which that energy flows down and up. Of course, that is what the
caduceus represents for me. It’s the double helix spiral and symbolizes our
communication with animals.
MARVIN: It’s the DNA spiral.
4
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
ELEANOR: Right, it’s the DNA spiral. The Tarot cards, we know from the Tree of Life,
represent exactly that. It, thus, makes perfect sense that in a very basic layout of Tarot it
would capture the spiral. I tried laying the cards out from the bottom up, reversing my
layout; in other words, going from the alpha/omega, the Key 0 and the Key 21, up the
body graph with the Magician, Key 1, coming into Gate 15, and then going clockwise,
and I don’t think it works as well. I think you leave the energy where it is and you simply
spiral around in the other direction.
SPEAKER: Well, that’s very true, because the duality is that there is no single direction.
ELEANOR: Right. And that might show us – for example, if we were to do this layout
for someone in a design, if a planet were retrograde, maybe we turn the card upside down
and that would tell us how the energy moves – and it might show us the fixation and the
exaltation as well.
To look at this information properly you would have to do a chart, a real chart with the
whole design and the Multilayer. Because, after all, what we’re doing here this weekend
has a three-month postnatal period.
SPEAKER: That’s right. What is three months from now? Do you happen to have your
calendar?
ELEANOR: Well, figure it out: it is August, so, September, October; it’s mid-
November, which will be just around the time that we submit the ad.
SPEAKER: And, this is really the three-month conclusion of your Multidimensional
Cartography class.
ELEANOR: Of the Cartography class, yes. We always go through a prenatal and a
postnatal period.
ELEANOR: Okay. I also found it rather interesting to consider that the Strength card,
Key 8, was Gate 12. The reason I find it really interesting is because the card signifies
dominion. The card represents dominion and gaining control over the expression of a
raw, animalistic energy. Gate 12 is the Gate of mutation, language and translation. We
gain dominion over how we express ourselves. The tricky part about it and one of the
interesting things about Tarot learning how to read the symbols of Tarot is learning that
what you want to gain dominion over is how you express and what you say to people.
You gain dominion when you use words in the energy congruent with the energy
expression and of the soul.
SPEAKER: In the center where I work we have 18 Tarot card readers. I ran everybody’s
chart. And with the exception of one individual, every person in that center has the Gate
12 in Line 4. Ra calls it the Gate and Line of the Prophet, but it is the externalization of
the translation.
5
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
ELEANOR: Right. So it fits with the Strength card, Key 8, being in the 12th Gate. What
happened as I laid out the cards was that I had the recognition of the correspondences. I
knew the layout was right. It was just an, “Oh, there it is.” It was so simple that it had to
be right. Then, as I went through and I said, “okay, well, how could it be, for example,
that the Hierophant, Key 5, is Gate 8?” And I answered, “Well, of course, that makes
perfect sense because the Hierophant represents the inner voice. When you are
contributing and when you’re using the energy of the Gate 8 as an expression, of course
you’re going to have to listen to the inner voice to get the message, especially if it’s
coming from a very deep, archetypal place.” In looking at the cards for each Gate and
then going back and reading the Hexagrams, another door opens into their meaning.
SPEAKER: Would you do an interpretation of the Gates with the cards and would you
teach a class on this material?
ELEANOR: Yes, I would love to do that. I don’t know that I’m really qualified at this
point, because I’m certainly not a Tarot expert, I’m only a beginning student from my
perspective. But, it certainly is fun. It’s a question of time for me, because I want to get
the layout out to people so they can start playing with it. After the layout is up on my
website, then later I could do the interpretations and perhaps teach a class. I think that the
priority of my time over the next month is going to be to write about how to do a
Multidimensional reading. I have already had six requests for free charts on the first day
we announced the Free Chart Service, and I have more requests this morning.
ELEANOR: Key 0 and Key 21 are the cards in the Sacral Center as well as in the Ajna
Center. “As above, so below.” You spiral counterclockwise and clockwise. You could
reverse each card if you’re coming from below or you could leave them and read them
that way. The cards are not laid out for transits or to take into account natal retrograde or
direct.
What happens is that when energy is there in the night for something to hook up the
Sacral Center, the energy connects in and there is a completion that comes into the
person. And, of course, the beginning, middle and end points are in the Sacral Center.
The only format present in the Mammalian Matrix is the Channel 53/42. It’s the power
column of the Mammalian Design; whereas, if somebody had the Channel 52/9, it would
be much more linked to the energies that are connecting up the portal in the Channel
62/17.
In other words, Channel 52/9, which I have in my Designs, may connect to a different
layer in another person than it does in my Designs. Let’s consider a person who connects
to the collective archetypal compared to what happens in my designs that connect to the
Angelic. The comparison shows a difference. So use the shorthand of what you see in the
pattern of energy. What this gives you is a link between the worlds. In the alchemical
world, we have Salt (the Demon Realm), Sulfur (the Earth Plane) and Mercury (the Light
Field) as the alchemical mix and that is what these cards are talking about, with the fourth
element being the integration that brings them all together. Each realm corresponds to
one of those alchemical components, and then we can integrate this information into the
6
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
whole Body Graph. Of course, it is different when you analyze a person’s chart – and this
is new for me, I haven’t done it. I haven’t really worked extensively with the Tarot cards
as they relate to a person’s Body Graph. I laid it out, I said, “Oh, this looks right,” and
then I had other things to do. So it’s basically been sitting for a number of weeks.
You asked the question, okay, a person who has the Channel 53/42, is different than I am.
I have the Channel 52/9. What it tells us is that that person has the format that takes them
into the Mammalian core and they handle that Sacral energy in their expression in the
waking life very differently than I do.
I would use the information interpretively very differently, depending on what the Body
Graph is saying. Then what I would do is read how the cards in that Body Graph might
be expressing themselves through the person.
SPEAKER: What is the relationship with “as above, so is below?”
ELEANOR: Well, they’re always going to match. This is like the Body Graph. The
layout is not going to change. Now, you could have a layout that could change for a
person based on, let’s say, the tableau I just gave you and you could use a separate deck
of cards. My Sun card is Key14. So if I take Key 14 as my Sun Sign and I put it in the
Gate where my Sun is, there would then be a relationship between that card that is my
individuality key, which would be the 26th Gate, and the 10th Gate, which has the native
energy of the Gate10. Then I would take the next card, which would be the personality,
Key 17, the Star, which would correspond to Gate 46, and I would look and see where
that would fit in the Body Graph. Now, we don’t use the ascendant in the Body Graph,
but we could. And I could see where that is in the Body Graph. But what you could do is
a layout of where the cards fit in the Body Graph by their astrological correspondence.
Now, not all the cards – the cards represent either planets or the signs, so you would have
to lay it out accordingly in the Body Graph. Then you could look at the meaning, and say,
“okay, this is the basic Tarot layout in the Body Graph.” In addition, we have other
layouts like the one Karen came up with that corresponds to the cube of space. We could
overlay Karen’s Tarot layout in the Body Graph for the person and we could observe
where the cards fall, Then, also using my layout we’d do an integrated reading of how the
energies interface with each other and what that tells us about how the person is put
together and their chemistry.
SPEAKER: Would it help you to have a fabric layout of this spread in the body graph?
ELEANOR: I am using the Waite deck. I wouldn’t use the Waite deck for my own use. I
use the Waite deck because I have permission to do so on my Web site by U.S. Games. I
use the Case deck for my own use. They’re very similar, but there are a few little
differences. I know the Case cards because I painted them myself.
Anyhow, this is the basic Tarot layout that I came up with. If you meditate on Key 9, the
Hermit, and if you look at where it falls in this layout, you recognize that the Hermit card
7
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
is in Key 35. Study the energy of it; it's the lower trigram, the 2nd Hexagram, the all yin.
The upper trigram is Aquarian. What that tells me about that Gate is that because we
know – and if you go back and reread my paper on Venus, posted on my web site, you
will note that the Venus energy is the source of the desire nature; the feminine energy
always starts the process. It’s exactly what Ed had said yesterday, that in the physiology
and the development, all the male adds is the Y chromosome. It initiates the process by
which the feminine can create form. Therefore, it is always a feminine source that is at
the start of the creation process.
When you look at this fact and at the fact that the 35th Gate, a Gate of Transformation
and of Change, links the Throat Center to the Solar Plexus Center, and, remember, all the
lower trigrams in the Solar Plexus Center, except one, have an Aquarian lower trigram,
you see that nothing ever happens in terms of manifesting desire unless you recognize
that you must have the desire. Unless you really have the desire for something, it’s not
going to manifest and it’s not going to happen. Desire always has to involve the Ajna
Center and the Head Center. A lot of the Aquarian energy is up there.
This is what the Hermit tells you. Be clear on what it is you want, and that clarity will
solve your dilemma. Use the Tarot as a way to gain insight into your own process. Do
you have Gate 35?
SPEAKER: Yes. I have the Channel 35/36.
ELEANOR: Aha, So that’s part of your main definition. In order to manifest what it is
you want, be clear on whether or not you want it.
Does that happen to you?
SPEAKER: Oh, just a little bit. [Laugh.]
ELEANOR: But use it that way. The BOTA teaches the Tarot tableau. In astrology what
you do is you use your sun sign as the Individuality Key, then you use the Ascendant as
the Personality Key. You then use the Sun plus the Ascendant as the Problem Key or the
challenge of your life. You then take the Individuality Key, so it would be the Sun minus
the Ascendant, the Personality Key, and you get the Solution Key. You are using the
number of the Tarot cards and the numerology. For example, my Sun sign Sagittarius,
Key 14, and my Ascendant is Aquarius, Key 17, which gives me Sun plus Ascendant
equals 31 between the two combined which equal 4 which is the Emperor, Key 4. That
means that my Problem is Key 4. And my Solution, of course, would be 14 minus 17,
which would be the Empress, Key 3. Then the Problem minus the Solution Key equals
the Means. The Integration is all of them added together. And you don’t always do the
numerology, you do the actual Key number, and then you combine them into a single
digit. You just combine things to be under 21, the number of keys in the major arcana. 31
would be 4. But if it were 20, it would be 20, because there are 21 cards.
8
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
The Integration Key is the sum of all the others. Use your Tarot tableau using the Major
Arcana based on your astrology. Place the cards and look at where the cards fall in the
Body Graph to see which of those Gates you have.
SPEAKER: Eleanor, when you say “Individuality,” what does that mean?
ELEANOR: Your sun is in Aries? Aries is Key 4. In the Tarot deck, and I’m using the
Builders of the Adytum system, certain cards correspond to certain things. It is a brilliant
study course, by correspondence. It’s $10 a month, $12 for two people.
MARVIN: How many years have you been studying it, Eleanor?
ELEANOR: I started in 1995.
MARVIN: I wanted you to all hear that. She’s humble.
ELEANOR: Well, it’s very complex material and I have not mastered any of it. It’s a
lesson a week and you start out with very basic stuff. First, you go over all the cards and
then you color your own deck. The cards come in black and white. They give you the
colors and how to do it. Then you go through the sequences of all the layouts and you go
through the Tree of Life and the meaning of all the Sephiroth and the configuration of it.
You lay out your Tarot deck on the Cube of Space according to all of that. You also learn
many multiple layouts in the Tarot; then you go through Gematria, which takes about a
year.
Gematria is the numerology of the Hebrew alphabet associated with the cards and all of
its symbolism. You make a notebook of all of the different meanings of all the different
symbolism and the Hebrew words; you calculate the numerology of each of the Hebrew
words associated with the symbols and then see how they link up. That was a little bit
more tedious than I could follow, especially since I have no Hebrew background. Dyan
has Pluto conjunct Mercury in the 10th House in Virgo. Dyan is very detail-oriented and
diligent. She’s the only person I know who baked every recipe from Maida Heatter’s
cookie book in sequence in the course of a few months. Every single recipe including dog
biscuits – and she didn’t eat any of them. She’s very detail-oriented, so she figured out
how to do this notebook and then showed me how she had figured out how to do it. It’s
about 500 pages of Gematria that we came up with in a year of study. But I certainly
don’t have it memorized.
Then you go through alchemy and all of the alchemical symbolism of the cards, and how
it’s laid out in the Tree of Life and how it’s laid out in the cube of space. And then you go
through astrology and all of the esoteric meanings of astrology and the cards and the Tree
of Life; now we’re on sexual polarity. Early on you color your deck of Tarot cards, so
you always work with your own personalized deck. I’ve been working with this deck
since 1995.
9
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
If you go on the website, www.bota.org, and you navigate around the site, they do have
all of the cards listed with all of their symbolism. Paul Case did a lot of the writing.
David Allen Hulse is a student of BOTA, Builders of the Adytum. David has become a
good friend and is a brilliant scholar. He wrote New Dimensions of the Cube of Space,
The Eastern Mysteries and The Western Mysteries, three books I use all the time as
source books.
MARVIN: The BOTA course is not expensive and you can do it at your own pace. I
started a little bit after she did, but I don’t do it all the time, every day, every week like
she does.
ELEANOR: I have Dyan keeping me moving. We’re neck and neck, so we start a new
lesson every week. If I’m delayed, I say can you wait a day, and if she’s delayed, she says
can you wait a day. She says she can’t sleep unless she does the work, and so she does it
every single day. She and Noah pull it out and they use the sound and the colors. You do
go through color and sound also. You learn the notes and you also learn the different
alchemical symbols and how to use them and how to meditate with them. It’s a very
simple, powerful course. And they do have exams before you go to the next level.
Note: In the ongoing development of my work there are many people to whom I feel
great gratitude; my family of humans, cats, and ducks immeasurably support and teach
me each moment and for them I feel deeply blessed. The “think tank” group offers
support to each other in an active collaborative process and has begun the admirable task
of building consciousness in forging a new way of operating in a new world. Jillian, my
assistant, offers her skills of insight and editorial acumen freely; she helps me clarify my
ideas and express them in an ever more polished style. To all of those who have offered
support to ULS in its birthing process, I give thanks.
References
Builders of the Adytum. Study course materials.
New Dimensions of the Cube of Space. David Allen Hulse. Samuel Weiser, Inc. 2000.
Illustrations from the Rider-Waite Tarot Deck, known also as the Rider
Tarot and the Waite Tarot, reproduced by permission of U.S. Games
Systems, Inc., Stamford, CT 06902 USA. Copyright 1971 by U.S. Games
Systems, Inc. Further reproduction prohibited. The Rider-Waite Tarot
Deck is a registered trademark of U.S.Games Systems, Inc.
10
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
Tarot Tables
The Path of the Tarot in the Body Graph
There are two paths of the Tarot addressed in this document in the Body Graph. The first
follows the unfolding spiraling counterclockwise inner process of development from the
Ajna Center through the Throat Center to the G-Center and then segues into the Sacral
Center with the shift into the Lunar Design of the Sleeping Body Graph Matrix.
From the Sleeping Mammalian Form the path of the Tarot is an upward in a clockwise
spiral from the Sacral Center up through to the G-Center and then to the Throat Center
and finally connecting back into the Ajna Center as consciousness transforms into Human
Thought and cognition.
The Paths together trace a double helix spiral reminiscent of the DNA spiraling double
helix and showing the relationships in our inner process to the Kabbalistic Tree of Life
and its associations with the Cube of Space.
The counterclockwise path is Gate 17, through Gate 62 into the Throat Center, Gate16,
Gate 20, Gate 31, Gate 8, Gate 33, Gate 45, Gate 12, Gate 35, Gate 56, Gate 23, through
Gate 8 to the G-Center through Gate 1, Gate 7, Gate 10, Gate 15, Gate 2, Gate 46, Gate
25, Gate 13, through the Center of the G through Card 20 to Gate 15 through to the Sacral
Center through Gate 5.
The clockwise path is Gate 5 through Gate 15 into the G-Center, Gate 2, Gate 46, Gate
25, Gate 13, Gate 1, Gate 7, Gate 10, Gate 15 through the Center of the G through Card
20 to Gate 1, through Gate 8 into the Throat Center, Gate 33, Gate 45, Gate 12, Gate 35,
Gate 56, Gate 23, Gate 62, Gate 16, Gate 20, Gate 31, Gate 62 through to Gate 17
through to the Ajna Center.
The Tarot Card path is shown with additional tables as well as with Hexagram Keynotes.
Arrows show a basic path with Black for the Ajna Path and Red showing the Sacral Path.
The interior Center path is one you need the verbal description to follow.
11
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
Tarot Path of Correspondence in the Human Design Body Graph
Ajna Center
Counterclockwise Path of
Movement in 64-Gate Matrix
Throat Center Gate 17 (Keys 0/21) to Gate 62 (Key 1)
Gate 62 (Key 1) to Gate 16 (Key 2)
Center
Gate 16 (key 2) to Gate 20 Key 3
Gate 20 (Key 3) to Gate 31 (Key 4)
Gate 31(Key 4) to Gate 8 (Key 5)
Gate 8 (Key 5) to Gate 33 (Key 6)
Gate 33 (Key 6) to Gate 45 (Key 7)
Gate 45 (Key 7) to Gate 12 (Key 8)
Gate 12 (Key 8) to Gate 35 (Key 9)
Gate 35 (Key 9) to Gate 56 (Key 10)
Gate 56 (Key 10) to Gate 23 (Key 11)
Gate 23 (Key 11) to Gate 8 (Key 5)
Gate 8 (Key 5) to Gate 1(Key 12)
Gate 1(Key 12) to Gate 7 (Key 13)
Gate 7 (Key 13) to Gate 10 (Key 14)
Gate 10 (Key 14) to Gate 15 (Key 15)
Gate 15 (Key 15) to Gate 2 (Key 16)
Gate 2 (Key 16) to Gate 46 (Key 17)
Gate 46 (Key 17) to Gate 25 (Key 18)
Gate 25 (Key 18) to Gate 13 (Key 19)
Gate 13 (Key 19) to G-Center (Key 20)
G-Center (Key 20) to Gate 15 (Key 15)
Gate 15 (Key 15) to Gate 5 (Keys 0/21)
Clockwise Path of Movement
in 15-Gate Matrix
Gate 5 (Keys 0/21) to Gate 15 (Key 15)
Gate 15 (Key 15) to Gate 10 (Key 14)
Gate 10 (Key 14) to Gate 7 (Key 13)
Gate 7 (Key 13) to Gate 1 (Key 12)
Gate 1 (Key 12) to Gate 13 (Key 19)
Gate 13 (Key 19) to Gate 25 (Key 18)
Gate 25 (Key 18) to Gate 46 (Key 17)
Gate 46 (Key 17) to Gate 2 (Key 16)
Gate 2 (Key 16) to G-Center (Key 20)
G-Center (Key 20) to Gate 1 (Key 12)
Gate 1 (Key 12) to Gate 8 (Key 5)
Gate 8 (Key 5) to Gate 31 (Key 4)
Gate 31 (Key 4) to Gate 20 (Key 3)
Gate 20 (Key 3) to Gate 16 (Key 2)
G-Center
Gate 16 (Key 2) to Gate 62 (Key 1)
Gate 62 (Key 1) to Gate 23 (Key 11)
Gate 23 (Key 11) to Gate 56 (Key 10)
Gate 56 (Key 10) to Gate 35 (Key 9)
Gate 35 (Key 9) to Gate 12 (Key 8)
Gate 12 (Key 8) to Gate 45 (Key 7)
Gate 45 (Key 7) to Gate 33 (Key 6)
Gate 33 (Key 6) to Gate 62 (Key 1)
Gate 62 (Key 1) to Gate 17 (Keys 0/21)
Sacral Center
© Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
Tarot Key (Major Arcana) Correspondences to I-Ching Hexagrams in the Human Design
Body Graph
Gate Tarot Key Gate Keynote Description
Ajna 0: The Fool (k) Design Crystal in the Communicates with the Ajna through neurotransmitter
Center 21: The World (j) Human activity in REM sleep.
17 0: The Fool (k) The Gate of Opinions: The Ancient Law that those who wish to rule must
21: The World (j) Following (1) know how to serve.
62 1: The Magician (d) The Gate of Detail: Caution, patience and detail produce excellence out of
Preponderance of the Small limitation.
(Love) (4)
Portal
16 2: The High The Gate of Skills: The great art of enriching life by the harmonic
Priestess (s) Enthusiasm (3) channeling of energy.
20 3: The Empress (f) The Gate of the Now: Recognition and awareness in the now which
Contemplation (Sight) (3) transforms understanding into right action.
31 4: The Emperor The Gate of Leading: The law of friction, whether active or passive, that
(1) Influence (5) engenders transference and thus influence.
8 5 The Hierophant The Gate of Contribution: The basic worth realized in contributing individual
(2) Holding Together efforts to group goals.
(Darkness) (2)
33 6: The Lovers (3) The Gate of Privacy: Active withdrawal and the transformation of a weak
Retreat (5) position into a position of strength.
45 7: The Chariot (4) The Gate of the Gatherer: The natural and generally beneficial attraction of like
Gathering Together (3) forces.
12 8: Strength (5) The Gate of Caution: The quality of restraint and the importance of
Standstill (3) meditation and inaction in confronting temptation.
(Mutation)
Portal
35 9: The Hermit (6) The Gate of Change: By design, progress cannot exist in a vacuum and is
Progress (3) dependent on interaction.
56 10: The Wheel of The Gate of Stimulation: Stability through movement. The perpetuation of
Fortune (h) The Wanderer (4) continuity through the linking of short term activity.
©Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
Tarot Key (Major Arcana) Correspondences to I-Ching Hexagrams in the Human Design
Body Graph
Gate Tarot Key Gate Keynote Description
23 11: Justice (7) The Gate of Assimilation: Amorality. The awareness and understanding which
Splitting Apart (2) leads to the acceptance of diversity.
1 The Gate of Self- Creation as a primal force. The energy potential to
12: The Hanged
Expression: The Creative manifest inspiration without limitation.
Man (l)
(Joy) (8)
7 13: Death (8) The Gate of the Role of the The point of convergence. By design, the need for
Self: The Army (5) leadership to guide and order society.
10 14: Temperance The Gate of the Behavior of The underlying code of behavior which ensures
(9) the Self: Treading (9) successful interaction despite circumstances.
15 15: The Devil (0) The Gate of Extremes: The quality of behavior which expresses the proper
Modesty (Chaos) (3/4) balance between extremes.
2 16: The Tower (g) The Gate of Higher Receptivity as the primal base through which any
Knowing: The Receptive response is determined. The root of action.
(2)
46 17: The Star (-) The Gate of the Good fortune that may be perceived as the result of
Determination of the Self: serendipity but derives from effort and dedication.
Pushing Upward (6/7)
25 18: The Moon (=) The Gate of the Spirit of the The perfection of action through uncontrived and
Self: Innocence (=/1) spontaneous nature.
13 19: The Sun (a) The Gate of the Listener: Universal ideas and values in an ordered framework
The Fellowship of Man (-) which inspires humanistic cooperaton.
G-Center 20: Judgment (;) The Identity of Self- Holds the Personality and Design Crystals together and
Magnetic Monopole is the core of one’s Identity.
5 0: The Fool (k) The Gate of Fixed The fundamental attunement to natural rhythms.
21: The World (j) Rhythms: Waiting (Time) Waiting as an active state of awareness.
(9)
Sacral 0: The Fool (k) Design Crystal in the Communicates with the Ajna through neurotransmitter
21:The World (j) Sleep/Mammalian Design activity in REM sleep.
©Unified Life Sciences. 2003. All Rights Reserved.
Comple- Hexagrams in the
Tarot Key Hexagram Channel
ment with Other Gates Related to Lower Trigram World of Archeytpes
Hexagram in G of Gate Partner
Key # (15-Gate Matrix)
Key 0
The Fool
Key 21
The World
Key 1
The Magician
Key 2
The High
Priestess
Key 3
The Empress
Key 4
The Emperor
Key 5
The Hierophant
Key 6
The Lovers
Comple- Hexagrams in the
Tarot Key Hexagram Channel
ment with Other Gates Related to Lower Trigram World of Archeytpes
Hexagram in G of Gate Partner
Key # (15-Gate Matrix)
Key 7
The Chariot
Key 8
Strength
Portal
Key 9
The Hermit
Key 10
The Wheel of
Fortune
Key 11
Justice
Key 12
The Hanged
Man
Key 13 No Hexagrams in the
Death 15-Gate Matrix
Comple- Hexagrams in the
Tarot Key Hexagram Channel
ment with Other Gates Related to Lower Trigram World of Archeytpes
Hexagram in G of Gate Partner
Key # (15-Gate Matrix)
Key 14
Portal
Temperance
Key 15
The Devil
Key 16
The Tower
Key 17
The Star
Key 18
The Moon
Key 19 Two
The Sun Portals
Key 20 energizes
Key 20
all Gates in the
Judgment
G-Center
Comple- Hexagrams in the
Tarot Key Hexagram Channel
ment with Other Gates Related to Lower Trigram World of Archeytpes
Hexagram in G of Gate Partner
Key # (15-Gate Matrix)
Key 0
The Fool
Key 21
The World