 Oh, today we're going to look at the Dalai Lama. What a sweet art. The Dalai Lama was born on July 6th, 1935 at 438 am in Lassa, Tibet. As you see, he is a four-six generator split definition and he's on the right angle cross of tension and this is the cross that provokes you. They're looking for the right spirit, you know, and provoking the right spirit in you. And as you see, as a split definition, what he'd be comfortable with is that 55th gate of spirit to be a single definition. Now we're looking at someone who is a defined channel 4037, the channel of community, apart seeking the whole, you know, just very much about the family and the channel 360. And the channel 360 is unconscious in him. Now the 4037 is conscious, 360 unconscious, but I think it's, you know, the real determinative and the pressure in his life coming from that root center, that channel 360. It's the channel of mutation, energy which fluctuates. But, you know, knowing something about the Dalai Lama, it's about a, these are agents of evolution. They're under pressure to change the way things are done, going from limitation to the dream, you know, to the new mutation, moving to a new order. And you know, if you were going to keynote him this pressure to, to, to mutate and bring about a new order in the community of man, the 4037. And you know, generators, you know, when we looked at Christiana Murty, I mean, here's a pretty, although there's a lot of individual heat with Christiana Murty, he's pretty remote, pretty self contained. And here the Dalai Lama, very much into the community and sharing his, his natural brilliance, his inner truth. Interesting with both Christiana Murty and the Dalai Lama, undefined, sponic center. So neither of them really felt good physically, but, but they were both very much attuned to the lack of well-being in the world, you know, on the planet, in their environment. Now, as I said, the right angle cross of tension. So there's, there's always a, when you're around him, you could really feel like, like a disturbance in your own force, a, yeah, like Star Trek, a disturbance in the forest. Now, you look undefined head, Ajaana, you know, trying to answer everyone's questions, convincing everyone that you're certain, and he has the 43rd gate fourth line in detriment, that's the one track mind, undefined throat. So under a lot of pressure to speak, probably a lot of throat problems with the Dalai Lama. And I don't know if he's written anything, I haven't written anything, or read anything that he's written, undefined G-center. So looking for that love and direction, looking for his place, and as I'm sure everyone knows, his place was Tibet. He was forced out or left on his own in, in 1956, I think. And that would make him 35, 45, 55, 20 years old, 21 years old when the Chinese invaded Tibet. And now for the rest of his life has been talking about and, and really, uh, provoking, to return to his place and define that place. I would posit that his place really isn't to, into, you know, the kingdom that he is seeking is, is more or less this community of man. And, you know, there's a lot of, the word truth comes up a lot in his design. I mean, that's 61st gate, 2nd line, which is natural brilliance, but it's the gate of inner truth, and the, the pressure, you know, that head center pressure, uh, to, uh, to be able to, uh, find the inner truth of things. He has the 2nd gate, you know, talk about the, the gate where the magnetic monopole, the gate of direction. And he has that, as I said, 2nd line there, genius, a natural gift for unlearnable knowing. He also has the 5th line, which is higher knowing. You know, so here's a person that, uh, you know, and 12th gate 4th line in detriment, you know, this undivided thread center, but that 12th line, this is the prophet, the line of the prophet, but it's the voice in the wilderness, you know, um, the voice calling us to reason. Now, he's looking for this love and direction in his place, but really, I think one of the things, and also as a generator, the feeling you get of, of him, uh, taking you in, and being with you in this, and when you're with him, uh, you know, this warmth that comes from that defined solarplex, and, uh, and ego, that sense of, uh, being part of his community. And from what I understand with people who, uh, go to wherever he is, and, uh, you know, he's our guru, he's our teacher. Um, you know, it's quite, uh, quite a cult following, quite a little community. He's got a traveling community with him. Now, uh, you look and you see, okay, um, that 39th gate, that's his personality sun. That's fourth line in detriment. And it's about temperance that 39th gate. It's provocative. It's in detriment. This is the energy to provoke, but it's about temperance. That four six, uh, the warrior, the person who is, is just kind of there. And, uh, the four six, the opportunist, seeking to have influence, but it's through networking. And, uh, you know, you just have to drive down the street to see bumper stickers free to bet and free, you know, he's turned, uh, the planet into his network. And, uh, you know, what it wants is, uh, is to control the chaos, you know, that, uh, 21st gate six line has a desired sun. But, uh, now with this, uh, open splenic center, so holding on to what's not good for you, um, with that one track mind, you could say, hey, you know, why don't you just forget about sped? Why don't you just get into the first gate first line that timing, you know, and that, uh, this is going to happen in the right time. And, uh, with that 57th gate fourth line in detriment, you know, this too is, it's about intuitive clarity, but in detriment, it could be, you know, not really being in touch with the right time. And, uh, that 27th gate, what is that fourth line? Yeah, how many fourth lines is he has seven fourth lines in his chart, you know, so very much about seeing what is needed, feeling what is needed, befriending and networking, and, uh, uh, uh, waiting for the opportunity. And, uh, that 40th gate fifth line, what is that? That's all negative forces must be rejected. That's 40, that's his personality moon. And he has another activation of that second gate. There's that fifth line. All right, how many fifth lines does he have? You know, so very seductive, but that second gate fifth line is really seducing you into his direction, you know, and into this, um, this knowing that he is now, uh, that 64th, what is he got? He's got three activations of that 60 second gate. And, um, that second gate, the gate of detail, um, but a second line, the discipline to apply restraint, he has the fourth line, uh, asceticism. He has the fifth line, which is, uh, reaching out to others, I think, you know, and bringing these details, but, um, so much, I think of, of who he is and what he's doing is in that channel 360, you know, it's about a dream, it's about coming from the limitation, um, and he was provoked and is provoking us with this community, uh, this new order, this new sense of community, the tribe of man, I would say, I would go so far as to say. And, um, you know, I think a very inspiring person, but, uh, it doesn't say much, I don't think. So I hope you enjoyed that and until next time, good day and good luck.