 This is the partnership reading for Marina and Alexander and first we begin with review of your single charts. Marina is a generator and she has a consistent energy to two things and she is looking for satisfaction in her life and she can get satisfaction when she uses her energy in a proper way when she does things that she loves. She can find things that she loves by waiting and responding to the life by her circular response. She's here to be called out and to respond to the pattern or rhythm that resonates with your nature, then your behavior can be empowered by her intuition and she can externalize your specific message that she's drawn to. So Marina your strategy is to wait to be asked and to respond with your voice that comes from your gut. Alexander is a projector and he doesn't have a consistent energy but he can read energies of others and he's here to be a guide for others but in order to be successful he should be invited. He should be recognized for his talents and invited. Alexander is here to learn from his experience and to be wise witness of things happening. Then he studies, research, reflects, does his experiments and then he gains his strengths and he becomes an authority for others. Alexander your inner authority is connected with your voice. You should listen to what you say when you are invited. Your voice is connected with your strong identity with the core of your self and when you listen to it you can feel if it is your identity speaking for your mind. Ask yourself questions. Does this resonates with me? With my direction? Does this give me self-expression? And you will hear the answers of your voice. Now how your types relate with each other? First, Alexander should understand that Marina is looking for satisfaction and her satisfaction comes through her right work and what this right work for her can be seen through her sacral response. So it is good for you to ask Marina questions and she can respond and see her truth but not to say her what to do. You will have a temptation to direct her as you are an authoritarian to teach her how to be successful but healthy way of dealing with your is to guide her through asking questions. When she will have a satisfying job or something that she loves doing then she will be happy in their relationship so she has to have this right work. Marina you should understand that Alexander as a projector is looking for success and he wants to be recognized by you and to be seen for his talents and he will want to guide your energy and it's good for you to allow Alexander to ask you questions and this is a way by which he can guide you. It is obvious that Alexander is not here to work physically a lot and most of the daily routine is supposed to be done by you Marina. You are designed for it. There is a lot of attraction between you. First you have a mental attraction. Together you are very logical you think about patterns and how they lead into the future is it secure future or not and you can find basic solutions for dilemmas in these patterns. When you come together you carry about each other you can have a very caring relationship. Together you can make discoveries. You can have a lot of new experiences and you have a potential to be in the right place in the right time and to succeed. You are attracted to each other to find a purpose in life and to struggle for it stubbornly and you have a potential of material success and of a potential of finding a new direction and the perspective of good material will be. When we look at the composite charts we can see that seven centers out of nine are colored in and it means that they work in a consistent way and two centers stay undefined or open. This white centers represent doors that you will go out and seek stability in this aspect of life and you can go into one door or into different doors and you can spend time outside together or alone. The first thing is self-esteem and group power. You can find yourself trying to prove that you are worthy to each other and to make promises. It's not healthy for you and you should remember that you are good as you are and you don't have to prove anything. The second thing is emotions. There is a potential that you will avoid confrontation and truth in your relationship and you will look for the passion and you will try to answer the question where are our emotions? What do we feel? Is it love or not? So this configuration tells us that there is a work to do and relationships are not guaranteed. There has to be an effort but if you do this work and the relationship survive early stages then it can be deep and profound and interesting. There are two hard places in the math where Marina has a consistent life force and Alexander has just a potential but finally he has to surrender to Marina and the first place is the rhythm. Marina has natural rhythm and her own timing of doing things that is guided by her subtle response. Alexander also has the tendency to have his own habits and rhythms but he has to surrender to Marina. For example if you are both if you want to go out and Marina is preparing in a very slow way. Alexander you shouldn't hurry here, you should be patient and wait when she is ready. And the second thing is Marina's behavior that is guided by her intuition and she is always working on perfecting her behavior. It can be perceived by you Alexander is challenging but you have to accept your nature. So basically Marina will control the form, the relationship will take and she will control the timing and you Alexander will compromise to her and you should be aware in this place. It's a work to do. It's not easy but it's possible and you have a potential to adapt and it's natural for you. Marina perceives Alexander's life force as something unique, his leadership talent and ability to gain wisdom from the past experience and his storytelling talent. And this is something very unique to her and she can recognize and accept you Alexander as a guide more easily. Let's look at the composite chart again and here we can see that there are two parts colored in that are not connected with each other and two top centers that represent the mines are split off from the rest of the chart. It means that something is going on in your mind but it's not easy to express it. It's not connected to the throat. There is a strong physical connection between you but intellectual connection is not easy and it's helpful sometimes to discuss things in the public aura. So for example you meet with your friends or go into the restaurant and speak there. This hooks your mind with the rest of the body and the mine can easily be expressed. Especially it will help Alexander because his personality, son and her which are very important are located in the head center and there is a lot of pressure to think and it needs to be expressed. When we look at marina's single chart we can see that the splint center and central center are defined and in Alexander's chart they are open. Splint center is referred to the immune system and our instincts and our survival and security and Alexander can become very addicted to the feeling of well-being with marina and he can hold on and things that he won't survive without marina. And central center represents the energy for work and sexuality and reproduction and Alexander can be obsessed with sex and with feeling alive and strong with marina. This by the way can lead to not knowing when to stop that cause the exhaustion of Alexander. It is very important for you guys to sleep alone because if you sleep together then the exchange of energy doesn't stop in the night and it leads to exhaustion and to distortions. You don't perceive yourself as yourself when you sleep together. So yeah it's necessary to have separate bedrooms and marina has an open throat center and Alexander has the throat defined. It means marina can be very dependent on self-expressions and she can try to attract Alexander's attention and to take premature actions and Alexander can speak all the time and control what is expressed and the throat center in composite chart is connected through Alexander through the channel that Alexander provides. For marina it can feel very uncomfortable as she's forced to express herself through this Alexander's channel which is unfamiliar to her. These dilemmas that come through open centers can be solved by following your strategy and authority. It's the only thing that can help you. You have a good foundation for your relationship understanding each other through your strong identity. Marina provides potential for experiencing love in many different aspects and Alexander provides the direction and when you come together your identity is even more stronger it's empowered by each other. Now let's look at your profiles that represent your characters, your roles that you play in life. Alexander is an investigator martyr. He's always looking for the security and he wants to know the truth. What is the foundation of our relationship? Is it solid? What can I trust? He's not looking for a certain foundation but he wants to know the truth. He research the partner in order to understand the foundation. He will instinctively look for the weak spots in marina and he will test you and what he finds is a big spot. It's okay. Now he knows the truth or if he doesn't then he can secure. And Alexander will always want to be the boss. Then he will feel secure. Marina has a profile of her mate of her Chinese. She is very natural and Marina has her own world and she likes to be alone and when she is alone she needs to be cold from outside to come out from her retreat. She is inherently friendly and she has a circle of her friends which is very important to her because all her opportunities come from these friends. And as a hermit she is very selective and she has this narrow opening. She has a sense of aesthetics and she likes special things and thus she she can be very expensive person. There are certain dilemmas in relationship of your characters. Marina needs time on her own and she needs to retreat and need her own space. And when this happens Alexander can feel insecure like something is wrong with the foundation of the relationship. And if he wants to know what happens and to know the details then he can become annoying. He can start to pursue and to insist and the more Alexander wants to know the more Marina wants to retreat and the more Alexander feels insecure. Or it can turn into coldness from each side as both of you are non-emotional and emotional center stays undefined in the company chair. The solution can be found by simply clarifying Marina's intentions. Marina can say darling I love you but I won't marry you now. By this she confirms that there is still a solid foundation and Alexander can relax and research something else. Marina is a social person and she will have your friends around. Alexander can like or dislike them but you should allow them allow her to maintain this context. If you don't like them then Marina has to go out and see her friends outside. Marina is a very selective person and she can need some expensive things that can disturb the security of Alexander and he himself likes simple things that work well and are profound and she likes things that look well. Well here you can find a compromise of things that look good and work well. Marina is here to externalize her fixed message. She is good at telling and she can be weak at listening. She will try to influence others with her message and she will try to influence you Alexander as well and it's important that you are compatible with her message because it's not possible to change Marina's nature which is where it is. Alexander has a nature that tries and mistakes and brings some instability and chaos into the life and it can be disturbing for Marina who has a fixed nature and this can cause her to pose down. Alexander has an adaptable nature. He can adapt to Marina and her behavior and her rhythm but it's necessary to understand that where is the limit of adaptation because if Alexander adapts too much he will have to break the relationship. The key here is in strategy and authority of Alexander. If he knows the limits of this adaptation then he can benefit from it. For example he can learn this style from Marina. And there is a good opportunity that can happen. Alexander will always do his research and will practice things. He will look for the truth and for what works and if Marina is called out to his research then she can perfectly externalize his work. That's how this can work. When we look at the way you perceive the world we can see that your way of perception is very similar. Both of you are inherently friendly and the perception of the world happens through opportunities and you see friendship in the world. You see influence and you see how others relate. So this is a good base for understanding each other. Okay now the summary. So first of all you have a lot of attraction. Your types are different but the combination of generator and projector is comfortable and productive. Generator is designed to do the work and projector is designed for providing guidance but you should be correct here because generator must be asked and not told what to do and projector should be recognized and invited. Then he can gently guide generator with asking questions. Both of you are quite open in your design and thus vulnerable and you don't impact each other too much. It is still a comfortable connection and also you both are non-emotional which is also brings some sense of comfort and stability. There is a good understanding of each other through strong identity that each of you have. Your profiles are not very compatible and this can lead to some kind of misunderstanding but as we covered before there are solutions for your dilemmas. The perception of the world is very similar and it's a good commonality and there are a couple of compromises which Alexander has to deal with. So relationship can work and can be comfortable enough if you do the necessary work and bring the awareness to your relationship as well as respect and patience, acceptance of each other's unique nature and allowance to be partner himself. Having separate bedrooms is absolutely necessary for generator projector couple and the most important thing is your personal strategy and authority. It will help you to resolve all these dilemmas and I wish you good luck.