 This is a partnership reading for Marina and Alexander. And first we begin from reviewing single charts of Marina and Alexander. Marina is a generator with a profile to four. As a generator she is here to realize your energy, to use it and to do what she loves. She should be asked in order to respond with your sacral voice and find out her truth. She is here to be called out and to externalize your specific message that she is drawn to. Marina will respond to what is true for her higher self and by aligning to the rhythm or pattern that she resonates. Then she finds her flow and she empowers her behavior and she perfects it in order to ensure her survival. Ritms and rituals are very important for her. Now let's see how your types generator and projector relates. What Alexander should understand about Marina is that Marina as a generator is always looking for satisfaction. And what is true for Marina can be seen through your sacral response. It means she should be asked. And her satisfaction comes through the right work. So it is good for Alexander to ask Marina but not to say what to do. And she will be happy in her relationship only when she has a satisfying job or something that she loves doing that is followed by her sacral response. What Marina should understand about Alexander is that Alexander and the projector is looking for success. And Alexander wants to be recognized by you and he wants to be seen for his talents. Alexander wants to guide your energy as well. He is born to guide energy of others and he will be interested in guiding your energy. It is good for Marina to allow Alexander to ask your questions. The problems that can appear in relationship of your types is that Alexander will not guide but he will try to direct Marina and teach how to be successful. And the healthy way is to guide Marina's questions. And it is obvious that Alexander is not here to do much work, much physical work. He is here for studying to study systems and how to work. Although this works in order to be helpful for others. And Marina in her looking for satisfaction can initiate in order to get something that she thinks will bring satisfaction. And it is not healthy for her. She needs to follow her response. And she should wait until she is asked. And you guys have a lot of attraction between each other. When we look at composite chart, we can see that there are five places where you are attracted and form channels. Consistent life force. First it is logical attraction, mental attraction. When you are together you are very logical and you think about future and about patterns easily to secure future or not. And you can find basic solutions for the dilemmas in the patterns. Second thing is where you are attracted is a channel called Preservation of Design of Co-Story and Ship. It is a life force for caring about each other and it will bring caring into your relationship. Third is a life force called Discovery. You can have a lot of new experiences together. You have a potential to be in a right place and in the right time and succeed. Marina is a stubborn fighter and Alexander is constantly looking for a purpose of life. And together you have a potential to find these purpose and to live for it together and to fight for it together. And you have a perspective of finding a new evolutionary direction that can bring you wealth and success in a material world. So you have a lot of attraction and sometimes it can be repulsion. When we look at your composite chart, we can see that seven centers out of nine are colored in. And it means they are defined and they work in a consistent way. And two centers stay undefined or open. It means they are not stable, not consistent. And this type of relationship is called a work to do. And what it means is that there are two doors, two open centers to go out. And you can look for a stability in these places and you will go outside these places. And these centers are ego, center and emotional center. With ego center, you can find yourself trying to prove that you are worthy to each other. You are not healthy, you are good as you are and you don't have to prove yourself. And in the emotional center that stays undefined as well, you will try to avoid confrontation and try to avoid telling truth to each other. It can also lead to questions like, where is the passion, where is the passion in our relationship? What do you actually feel? What do I feel about my partner? What do you love me? What are our emotions? And yes, in these places you can go out to look for emotions and to go shopping, to go to this cinema. And it can happen that you will go in the same door and spend time outside together or go into different doors. Basically this type of relationship means that there is a work to do and that you should learn how to be together. There should be an effort to make relationship happen. And if you do this work and relationship survive, it's already staged then. It can be very deep and interesting and fulfilling for both of you. There are two hard places in the map. No, stop. There are two places which can be hard in relationship and cause a lot of troubles. They have this situation. These are places where one has consistent life force and the second has potential. And the one who has the potential, he has to surrender to the other because the other has a consistent way of. Consistent life force. So first place is a rhythm. And Marina has a consistency in her rhythm. Alexander has a tendency to have his own habits and rhythms, rituals. But Marina is more consistent in this and Alexander has to surrender to Marina's rhythm and timing that is guided by her sacral response. For example, if you want to go out and she is preparing, she is preparing in a very slow way and you are hiring her. It's not good because you shouldn't hire her and be patient and wait when she is ready. Just because it's important that you respect your timing. And the second thing is a Marina's behavior that can be perceived as challenging by Alexander. But Alexander, you have to accept that it's very natural for her to follow her intuition that dictates how to behave. So from these two places we can see that Marina controls the form of relationship by her behavior. And she will take control of the timing. These are two places that Alexander should be aware of. And to surrender, of course it's a work to do. But Alexander, you have a potential to adapt to it. It's natural for you to adapt. And if you look at a single channel that is a life force of Alexander, it's called Prodigal. And it's a leadership talent of Alexander and the ability to reflect on his experience. And to be wise about it and to share it with others, telling stories and big, little experiential video. And Marina will perceive this talent as a unique cause. Because it's very unfamiliar for her. And therefore she can recognize Alexander as a leader. And she can accept you as a great, great warrior. And this is a life force that... The other thing that can be seen when we look at composition is that when connected together, you form two parts of definition of areas that are colored in. And these two parts are not connected to each other. We can see two centers at the top that represent the mind, are not connected to the rest of the body. So the mind is split off and something is going on in your mind. But it's not easy to express it. There is a strong physical connection between each other, but intellectual connection is not easy. And therefore there is a need to discuss things in areas where others can help you to bridge these two areas. And I suggest you to go to public places and speak there and release your mental pressure. I think it will help a lot. Your mind can be easily expressed in restaurants or when you meet with your friends. Especially I think it will be important for Alexander. Because his son and hers, personality, son hers, that are a big part of him, are located in the head center and he has this constant pressure that needs to be released through speaking. So yeah, it can be hard when you do not understand what is going on with your mind. And it's another place to relax and surrender and to let things happen as they happen. Alexander has an open spleen and open sacral. This spleen is referred to the health and immune system and our survival and security. And the sacral is center of work and reproduction and sexuality. In these two centers, and these two centers are defined in marine as chat. It can cause some sort of dependencies. It's because Alexander is looking for a sense of well-being. And he can hold upon Marina and feel that without Marina, he won't survive. And he can perceive that it's good for me because it feels good. He can be very dependent. And in sacral center, Alexander feels so alive and so strong together with you Marina. And because of that, he doesn't know when to stop and he can exhaust himself. So Alexander can become very addicted to the feeling of well-being that Marina brings as well as to her generators sacral and angiobigies. It is extremely important that you guys sleep alone. Because when you sleep together, you don't let each other have an arrest, an energetic arrest. It's important to be in one's aura, especially for Alexander who has an open sacral. And Marina has an open throat center that is the center of communication, action and self-expression. And Alexander has a defined throat center. So it can happen that Alexander speaks of the time and he controls the outcome, which is not very healthy. And Marina can feel the inside of her. I need you to express myself. Marina can try to attract Alexander's attention and to take premature actions that are not healthy for her. We can see that Marina's undefined throat center is connected through dominance channel. Marina has an open throat center and Alexander has a defined throat center. It means he can in and not self. Marina has an open throat center and Alexander has a defined throat center. And it can happen that Alexander speaks of the time and he controls the outcome, the expression, he controls who is speaking and what is expressed. And Marina can feel quite uncomfortable because in a partnership chart we can see that this throat, her throat becomes defined through the channel which is provided by Alexander. And it is unfamiliar to her. She can find uncomfortable to express herself. It can be a challenge. And in this open center that I mentioned, what can help you is to remember about your strategy and authority. It is a way to behave in a healthy manner. There is a good foundation for your relationship that is based on your commonality and it is your identity center. You both have a strong identity and you can understand each other on this level very well. Marina will provide potential for expression, for experiencing love in many different aspects. And Alexander will provide the direction for both. And when you are together, your identity is empowered and it becomes more stronger. It is a good foundation. And when we look at your profiles, profiles are like your characters, your roles, the roles that you play in life. Here we can see Alexander as a one-three. He is always looking for the security. And he wants to know the truth. What is the foundation of our relationship? Is it so that can we trust it? What can we trust? He is not looking for a certain foundation but he wants to know. He is looking for the truth. And he will always research the partner in order to understand its foundation. And he is instinctively looking for the weak spots and somehow tests Marina. And when he finds a weak spot, he is not bad. He now knows the truth and he is okay now he feels secure or if he does not find weak spots, then he also feels secure. And Alexander definitely wants to be a boss. He is an authoritarian and he wants to rule. Then that is because then he feels secure. And Marina is a two-four-profile. It is an opportunist. It is a hermit opportunist. And Marina is a two-four-profile. She is a hermit opportunist. She is very fixed in her character. Marina likes to be alone because she has her own world. And she is very natural. And when she is in her own world, in her retreat, she needs to be called out from the outside to come out from her retreat. She is intelligent with friendly and the circle of her friends is a very important thing for her because she is an opportunist. And all the opportunities for her become from her friends. As a second line, as a hermit, she is very selective and she has a sense of aesthetics. She likes special things and she is an expensive person. Now let's see what dilemmas can bring these profiles. Marina definitely needs time on her own. She needs her retreat to have her own space and own time. And when this happens, Alexander can feel very insecure, like something is wrong with the foundation of their relationship. And if Alexander wants to know what happened and to know the details, then he can be annoying. He can start to pursue to insist. And the more Alexander wants to know, the more Marina wants to retreat. And the more Alexander feels insecure. Or in other case, it can turn into coldness from each side. Remember that emotional centers are undefined and it's about avoiding the truth and confrontation. Yeah. And the solution in this situation can be found simply by clarifying the intentions of Marina. Marina can say, darling, I love you but I want my retreat now. By things this, she confirms that there is a solid foundation and Alexander can relax and he can resource something else. Marina is a social person. She will have your friends around. And Alexander can like or dislike them, but he should allow her to maintain this context. But he is doing his research and for him all these friends of Marina can be disturbing. So if Alexander doesn't like them, then Marina should go out and see your friends outside. Marina is a very selective person and thus she can eat expensive things. This can disturb the foundation, the security of Alexander. And what he likes are simple things that are profound and that work well. And she likes things that look well. That's a dilemma, but you guys can find the compromise of good-looking things that work well. Marina is here to externalize your fixed message, something that she is drawn to. She is good at telling and she is weak at least. And she will try to influence others with her message and she will try to influence Alexander as well. And it's very important that Alexander is compatible with this message because it's not possible to change Marina. And the nature is very fixed. Alexander has this character that tries and makes mistakes. And this brings some instability and chaos into the life and can be disturbing for Marina. Who has this very fixed nature and it can cause Marina to close down, go into her inner world like... Alexander on the other side doesn't like to be fixed and he needs some freedom. He should, he will want to go outside. When he is not fixed, he knows that he always can try something else. He is sensitive to dependencies and Marina is not fixed on something, he feels more independent. So Marina, you should allow Alexander more freedom, not to hold him almost. And one of the biggest dilemma in your interactions is that Alexander is a person who can adapt easily. He can adapt to Marina and it's necessary to understand where is the limit of this adaptation. Because if he adapts too much, he will have to break the relationship. The key here is his strategy and authority. If you Alexander through your strategy and authority, if you know the limits of your adaptation, then you can profit from, for example, you can learn the style from Marina. And it can work fine. And in relationship of your characters, there is a good opportunity. Alexander will always do his research and practice and he will look for the truth and for what works. And if Marina is called to this research, then she can perfectly externalize it. It can be a good missionary couple. Okay guys, that's all. You can see that there are many good things in your... Okay guys, as a summary, we can see that in your relationship, there are many comfortable and good places. And there are many to them. Basically your relationship can work fine, but you need to work on it. And the most important thing is to follow your strategy, your personal strategy and authority. And from there you can be correct and aware and your relationship can work really well. Have a good life.