 Hello, hello, Marsha. Welcome to you. Glad you managed to come in. Okay. Good evening. Welcome to those present in the classroom and welcome to those who will later download this recording. Yeah. I am... I am glad you know I have many of you or names I have never had in one of my classrooms. That's always nice. And so just a couple of words to introduce myself. Actually, I do have my design so you will be able to see it later on as we move on. And so you know who is behind the voice talking to you. This is my 19th year in human design. And for the last year I have been enjoying myself deeply around the Godhead and the so-called faces of the Godhead by Ra. I have been doing the journey around the wheel following the sun actually, both in Italian and in Spanish. And I enjoyed it so much that right where I finished I started it all over again this time with the German group of students. And most of my contribution in this spring event that's going to happen in Ibiza in April is focused on the Godhead. And so it comes together with something else that I have just started to do which is translating the Rape cosmology for a group of Spaniards. And so I, you know, after dedicating so much time, energy and effort to master the surface of the body graph and to realize you know how every open gate and channel and center is full of our... of our not self. Then I went into now, I don't know, eight, nine years. The whole infrastructure beneath the line, you know, the things that cannot be seen on the surface and yet impacts of deeply our... our being and our perception, things like color and tone and variable and all of those things. And, you know, brave cosmology, I participated in some of the old great courses that that Ra did over time. And I didn't know what to do with it at the time, you know, which has seemed to be so far away from anything that was empirically verifiable. That is a one three that I am. It was just not appealing. It's only now over, you know, over time when all the other layers of human design, you know, I have found their place and I... I can enjoy looking at life through the whole body of knowledge that human design and bodies without finding... little contradiction that I have started dedicating myself to review all of these more... written gray materials and I'm talking now about brave cosmology because the God hats, you know, there are somewhere between the gray and the black and white of human design in the sense that when you, you know, when... it is presented like this, what is the God hat, you know, it is you immediately associated with philosophical concepts that are there. And I hope that tonight I will be able to show you that, you know, from the perspective of human design, we can, you know, we can actually demonstrate that, you know, not like Nietzsche's that, you know, that God is dead, we can actually demonstrate that, you know, he was never alive. So he couldn't, he couldn't have died because he was never alive. The values embodied by the God hat as it used to be seen around Nietzsche's time, you know, Nietzsche was someone born not long after 1781, the beginning of the mutation that took humanity from operating through a seven-centred matrix to a nine-centred. And, you know, the absolute values that God or anything associated to God was carrying simply started losing its power from the beginning of the emergence of the industrial revolution and how deeply, you know, that has brought about mutations in humanity's conceptual radiance. And, you know, the conceptual realm philosophies, blah, blah, blah, all of these things. I was amusing myself actually with Nietzsche yesterday, I was looking about a lot of his work in Internet and I calculated his chart is actually so amazing to see. Yeah. Well, and I was amusing myself even before the class, you know, just pondering about these sentences about, you know, we being made in God's image. And I was just amusing myself thinking that, you know, if we were made in God's image, it must have been behind his back, you know, without him knowing. And that's how we took everything over, including his ignorance. You know, I mean, the joke is that my joke is that if they're where a God, it would be an ignorant entity, you know, it would be ignorant. And that's why he could never help us, you know, that's why he could never take care of us. And that's why, well, our planet, no matter how much we adore it, love, it seems that, you know, the more Godless our experience, that the more we cherished that idea of God and that the more God-like our experience on the mundane planet, you know, the more evidence there is for the fact that you can live life and you don't need a God, you don't need a heaven, you don't need a hell because everything, everything is down here. And everything is related to you and you are the center of that, everything that we all, as humans, proceed through our self-reflected consciousness, the potential that we are much more aware of than seven-centred humanity ever was, because we can afford to look at the whole, you know, without necessarily associating it to a creator, you know, just something that's there that happens anyway. The start of the Godhead, you know, the beginning before the start, like Raj used to call it, is in the, in the crystals of consciousness, it's the way it's explained in Rayf Cosmology that the big bang, that moment of that scientific community calls singularity where everything that exists in the universe was compressed in an object, tinier than the head of a needle. You know, that the Rayf Cosmology as reviewed by the voice to Rah establishes that there was never singularity that there was always a duality, you know, even before the big bang. The thing is that, you know, humanity scientists, you know, we could never measure what was there before the big bang, because according to the laws of physics that are rooted in Einstein's relativity, you know, the big bang initiated the emergence of light, and it is only after the emergence of light that we can start our measurements, because without light, we just don't have a single formula, with which to even start the measurements. The thing is that before singularity and before the emergence of light, the universe, or the potential of the universe already had a nature that was made of a, you know, a prime design crystal and a prime personality crystal with its, you know, counter parts. With its own potential binary within themselves and in the moment of colliding into each other, you know, this potential duality simply started unfolding. But basically the story of the God had, you know, this is a story that has been carried forward from the beginning by the neutrino ocean. Now by the neutrino ocean and the way the neutrino ocean has forever been filtered by the uncountable sub crystals that emerged in the moment of the explosion, in the moment of the collision, in the moment of fragmentation basically. And that fragmentation, see, it didn't just happen, you know, in an alliatory way. It followed certain lines. It followed certain clusters, you know, like it followed certain lines of geometry that were established from the beginning in the very way the crystals were fragmented. You see what you see here is a representation of how that potential that was there in the beginning before the start unfolded once everything happened, you know. And in the beginning what we had, you know, was the one that we contain as two. And out of that two, you see as the universe unfolded, the two became a four. And out of that four, you know, we grew a 16 and out of a 16, we grew a 64. But it all, it all happened, you know, based on certain lines, fractal lines. You know, if we could kind of pull all the design and personality crystals back together, they would go back to form a single object because they all fit together. It means that there are crystals that now exist separately that in the beginning where face to face and, you know, just part of the same hole. As this expansion moves, you know, 15 billion years later here we are, you know, each and every one of us carrying, you know, an aspect of that original Yin and an aspect of that original Yang that we call crystals of consciousness. See, every incarnation is the manifestation of the yaks, the position of an aspect of those two prime crystals. And the moment we incarnate, see, we incarnate as part of a certain line of geometry. And a certain line of geometry that as you will see, you know, has its own chemistry. It's a chemistry. I mean, what I'm going to try to show you today is the way through the Godhead and through the conditioning of these Godheads, you know, seven-centred humanity has forever, forever been making decisions exclusively with their minds, exclusively. I mean, you know, the Godhead in that sense is what the not-self, what we in human design call the not-self, considers to be our essence, our essence. I mean, you know, in human design we can, I can make fun out of, you know, making decisions out of your mind. Because it is funny in a way, when you have the awareness of something else being possible, it is kind of funny. But then again, you know, it's a tragedy also. And not only is it a tragedy, the fact that I can make fun of it does not mean that for most people it is the holy grail. What they think, they think, they think, they think, they think the R seems to be the latest update of their uttermost and deepest truth. Truth, because that's what they know about themselves, you know, who they think to be as a response or reaction to the way they think about everything, of which they are not aware, because it all runs on automatic pilot. You know, the fact that we can see that it is deeply unaware does not mean that for the most, for the vast majority of humanity, this is the essence, their essence, and what they think is their essence. So I am going to show you the way in which, you know, we move to actually look at our minds in this way. How the mind has penetrated our form to a place where it considers to be in charge of the things that the body does the way that the body does them, what it does, when it does it, who it does it with, you know, is in charge of everything, of everything, and it's so because, you know, the chemistry is homogenized. And it's a homogenization that brings the mind to function upon certain assumptions, assumptions about everything, you know, assumptions about everything that is yang, and assumptions about everything that is Yin. I mean, here you see the way the wheel is split, two halves, and every gate that is on this side, you know, mentally it's yang, it's yang. You know, so this is about putting out and convincing and putting your stuff on someone else's, this is not about taking anybody in, it's about putting your stuff on anybody else's, yang your way through life. Whereas this one, this is about taking in, but there is no awareness, it's just a mechanism, it's just a mechanism, and it's there in the chemistry, and the mind doesn't have a split second to even consider thinking about it. It's all based on assumptions, assumptions. And then this Mandala, you know, we divide in four quarters, four quarters of incarnation. Please understand that when we speak about the Godhead and the way the Godhead has conditioned us, we are exclusively talking about the way the Godhead has conditioned our awareness on a personality level. This has got nothing to do with the body. If it had an impact on the body, we would have never mutated from seven centered to nine centeredness, because the gods would have never allowed, you know, because out of nine centeredness, we would get to a place where seeing their game and the futility of their game was just going to be easy and simple. You know, we're not only with the lens of human design, with the lens of science, you know, there is all kinds of scientific data that has emerged as a result of the industrial revolution that has demystified so much of the power of God, of the Godhead. You know, so what we see here in this division, I mean, we're still, you can see that still there is the Yang and the Yang beneath. But what we see here is a division of the half that is Yang in two other halves, quarters of the Mandala. We have the Yang Yang above that we call the quarter of mutation, and that's really yanging your way through life. These sixteen gates, oh, they're not here to be changed. They're not here to be receptive. They're here to penetrate you, to penetrate everything, everything, everything. Just that's what brings fulfilling. And here we have the Yang, ying, this is the quarter of initiation, this is all about mind. So the connection that humanity has to our personality, to spirit, to transformation, to awareness. It's all Yang, to mind, it's all Yang, this is seven centered humanities, mind all Yang, but what we think has to determine what we do. That what we think is all about what we do and whether, you know, in how we do it, not about whether we do or we don't, it's a matter of how doing is certain, doing is certain humanity has, has not known yet this doing that does not come out of the mind. A doing that comes out of the form, you know, relationships that are not mind-controlled, but actually are a response of our form. This is the place where humanity, nine centered humanity can heal. This is the place where human design offers us a chance to realign, to form and through that realignment of form, also finding a new relationship to our minds and to our spirit. I mean, that place of mutation in awareness, in awareness, not in sumartness, not in that goal-oriented strategic mind that wants to Yang its way through the Yin. No, out of the pure respect of letting the Yin be what it is. So here we have the geometries of the Yin in the seven centered humanity because everything runs through the mind, you see, the form has been so distorted that the form has become submissive to the Yang. Submissive to the Yang that the form itself does not respect its principle. You know, the female principle, not respecting itself for what it is, but dependent on, you know, the respect of the Yang, you know, seeing as inferior as the Yang, that's why we live in a male-dominated society, patriarchy. See the God had, comes from here, Yang, Yang, particularly in monotheistic religions, you find it here, it's this Yang, Yang, you don't question God, you don't doubt God, you don't stand equal to God and all of those things. So purpose, because, you know, this is the potential that the transcendent, that the, that the wheel brings, you know, when we realize ourselves as part of the whole, or what does this mean, as part of the whole, you know, part of the hurt, part of the homogenized consciousness field of the followers of a certain religion, of a certain spirituality, and for me, that includes, you know, any expression of new age consciousness, because it always is oriented towards, you know, homogenizing, generalizing about what it means to be human, you know. Rather than accepting that, we don't know, that we never knew, that without the God had, we actually don't know how to define human, and that can be very, very scary for the not-self personality. See, it's only the surrender passenger that does not need to have a preconceived idea of what being human means, because their decisions are not based on any kind, on any standard of good or bad. It's not restrained by any homogenized moralistic standards, not at all, because this is what, you know, God had to bring you. Now let me take you a little closer. This is a deconstruction of what is known, and we just saw as a quarter of Alcione, the quarter of initiation, where fulfillment and purpose is realized. Through mind. Through mind, this is where mind, you know, pushes, you know, we have the yang below the Yin, mind pushes, in order to penetrate the Yin, to penetrate the form, to learn from the form. So here is where mind teaches itself how to deal with the form. So all kinds of, you know, homogenized concepts, and by homogenized concepts, I mean all homogenized concepts about good and evil, about virtue and sin, are going to be established here. You know, all kinds of generalizations about what supposedly is the best way to deal with form, and it's going to be defined and redefined by mind, by mind. Okay. So what we see here is, you know, we have 16 gates that we know that in the, in the base, carry the same binary. They carry a yang with a Yin above, because the 16 gates, they're all about mind penetrating the form. This is the way purpose is achieved in any of the 16 gates of the quarter of initiation. Okay. So let me take you one more step. What you see here, I don't know if any of you has ever seen this kind of images, because it's really fascinating, because this is the place where you can see that these got heads, you know, where their power comes from, and to see it biochemically. I mean, first of all, you know, you can see that up here you have the letters that represent the four basic genetic basis. Okay. And then you can see here in small, you will be able to look at that with more detail when you download the presentation, that there is a different combination of the four bases, making up the biochemical structure of each of the 64 hexagrams around the wheel. But if you look carefully, you will see that, what I've just indicated, what we have here is the faces 5, 6, 7, and 8, which by the way, you know, you can see it's not faces 1, 2, 3, and 4. Let me take you back for a moment to make sure that we're all here on the same track, one more. That phase 1 is here. This is phase 5. This is phase 9, and this would be, I guess, 13. Okay. The incarnation, the wheel of incarnation starts here in Gator team, you know, this gate of looking to the past, you know, where the witness comes into incarnation and is helplessly taking in the past through the form of others, through the form of those that it needs. At the moment of birth, this is where it starts. This is where the individual journey starts, but this is not where the evolution of human consciousness has started. You know, the human consciousness, the homogenized plane is already there when we come into the world. Okay, even though we cannot remember, we don't know where it all comes from. It does have a history, you know, and it can be followed. So when we get here, you're just getting to a place where the mind, you know, takes in the past, you know, and starts moving, passing everything it has learned to the next generation, and so it goes. So it has been going forever. And what we know is that the first 16 gates, you can see they're all going to have this Yang-Ying at the bottom as a binary. You can see it here. The bottom binary of lines represents the theme of the quarter. Okay, but then if you follow the line, you know, you will see that every four gates, you know, they not only share the same bottom binary, they also share the binary of lines three and four, and every four gates, it changes. You know, so you can see, for example, that the God the face of the God had number five that is associated with Kali that it carries inside, you know, this is the methodology. They're all about, they're all about the Yang penetrating the Yin. Okay, but you can see that each one of these God heads, they establish their own methodology, their own methodology. You know, Kali, for example, with this Yang-Ying in the middle, you know, is basically making sure that each one of these four gates, whenever they get into, you know, their way of learning, of learning to penetrate the Yin, to penetrate the form is no resistance. It's getting this message that, you know, I'm gonna get into you no matter what, I'm gonna penetrate you, whether you like it or you don't. You know, if I have to beat the shit out of you, if I have to kill you, whatever it takes, I'm going to penetrate you. No compassion. Nothing is gonna stop me, Yang, Yang, that's the methodology, that's how we learn. You do it, you do it, you do it, you try again, you try harder. It's a methodology, it's a methodology, very different to meetra gate six, you know. You can see that these gates, the phase is carrying a different message. It's a Yang-Ying, it's a repetition of the theme of the quarter. So you can see that of all four the godhead that has the deepest association with the theme of the quarter itself, the Yang penetrating the Yin, we find here in meetra. We have this double combination of Yang, Yang, Yang, Yang, that's the methodology of meetra. The way meetra penetrates the form is by showing a readiness to learn from the state, to take the other, to take the circumstance into consideration that the way you learn from this circumstance is not the way you learn from a different circumstance. Kali, Kali says certain things have to be the same, always, always, always, no matter who's on the other side, no matter what the circumstances. Now you look at the Kali gates and you can see that they're not looking at throats. They're not concerned with the results, so why should they be concerned with circumstances, very different than the gates of meetra that are pointing outwards towards the throat? They are there to learn from circumstances. They carry this Yin aspect in the fourth line that is ready to adapt its questions to who's there, who's going to adapt its readiness to learn depending on whether there is someone to learn from or not. You know? Very different. When you get to gate to phase seven, it's still about, mind penetrating the form. But this is very different because here the message of this Godhead that Ra associated to the archangel Michael carries this Yin talked by the Yang. Now this is the symbol of duality and relationships. These gates say that you know the importance that you mean that you can only learn the right things if you have the right thing. You have the right others. You know that you can, that it is easier to learn with others than it is to learn alone. That the learning here has to do with communication and exchange with others. But nobody is alone. So here you have mental gates that you know left the emotional system behind with its turmoil, with the way emotions capture us, kidnapped us within our own subjectivity. This is the mind that pretends itself presents itself as objective to others. Objective. Free from its passions. Free from its ups and downs. The archangel Michael, you know, the representative of God on earth. This is where humans. You know, think themselves capable of expressing the words of God to someone else to bond with others based on words, God's words. So here you have the gates, you know, the concepts that establish the way, you know, we men are supposed to meet women, women are supposed to meet men, parents are supposed to meet children, children are supposed to meet men. This is how the mind preserves, you know, and pretends to have no one, you know, to establish what relationships should be, you know, how all relationships should be. This is a good relationship, this is a bad relationship. As if it had, you know, the capacity to even consider establishing such a thing. And then you come to Janice and here you see that this is a very different, it's still Yang penetrating the Yin. But hey, the methodology here is surrender. The methodology is Yin, Yin. You want to penetrate the form, let the form be what it is, accepted for what it is, because that's how you can learn best. That's how you can penetrate the deepest, that because that's when you will meet less resistance, less the resistance, the least effort. And it's all about mind learning about the form in order to control the form and determine, you know, what its life is supposed to be. And of course, we become slaves, slaves of our own destructiveness, you know, that comes out as legitimate, you know, fighting unfairness in every shape and form. You know, people with a personality in any of these gates, you know, these are fighters for human rights, these are people who want to change the world, you know, these are people who are very unhappy with humanity, they think humanity is the blame for everything, that there is not enough spiritual purity, you know, they are always ready to destroy false devotion. You know, real, intergrist, of intergrist, extremist, of whatever it is that they believe in, and it does not matter what culture, what layer of their society they come from, because this is, it pervades all layers, all cultures, it's a human chemistry, and if you don't operate correctly, the way you experience that chemistry is always going to come out distorted by your not self-mind, you're distorted personality. You know, when metra people, you know, these are people, you know, they are always anxious about life not being what it is, and they're always ready to learn, but they're learning is these questions that never find a satisfying answer, they can never be satisfied, most dissatisfied with life. And therefore, you know, they're always ready to take action after all, this is the basis of this, this is yeah, and they take basis, they take action based on their dissatisfaction, you know, generate metra generators, they are always initiating based on what's frustrating for them, trying to get rid of it, you know, trying to blame something for it, trying to, you know, find some way to not have to take responsibility, for that, and it's not like they know what they do, they just feel this compelling urge to do something, you know, and people with a Michael personality, wow, they're greatest moralists in the world, the greatest moralist, you know, every word they say, they say like, you know, they were, as if they were absolutely certain, and you see them five minutes later and they're saying exactly the opposite with the same moral superiority, these are the people who have the strongest sense of moral superiority to anyone that is ever going to disagree with them, no matter about what righteousness or personalities. And this, Janus, this Yin, Yin, Yin, Yin, you know, these are deeply frustrated minds, you know, these are minds that are very, very afraid, afraid of not controlling the form to the point of depression, you know. So afraid of not controlling the form that they are, you know, dreaming about some safe tomorrow, security becomes their obsession and everything connected to the form, because they don't know how to deal with the Yin, in its purity, in the purity of what the Yin is, form, no, form is just another word. The word form is just another word, mindset, oh yeah, my body, oh yeah, inner thought, oh yeah, good. It's so vicious to mind, you know, it doesn't go away, the only thing we can do with it is transform it, and the way we transform it is, you know, embracing the form fully, fully. fully honoring the form, our form. So we, we can connect, you know, we find some way to connect ourselves to our own mythology. I remember, you know, in my early years as a student, when we started learning about incarnation crosses, to listen to rad, talking about, you know, that we are all mythological creatures, that we are born with a unique mythology, you know, it sounded so, so touching. It sounded so encouraging, it sounded so like, oh wow, yeah, beautiful, beautiful, you know, as a concept at first, beautiful, to have this own unique way to connect to the totality, beautiful, play, easy to say, to get there. To get there, to get to a place where you are as a personality, you are not speaking for any of these guys, you know, because they're always there. They are always there at every possible level of consciousness, you read the newspaper, any newspaper, you read, there are people there, writing, and what they're writing that they consider to be the essence of who they are. Oh, it's so deeply impregnated, you know, from the messages of these guys, and they don't realize it. They don't realize it, what they are expressing everything based on their conception of a homogenized order, a homogenized order that can hold civilization in place, or make it better, make it better because civilization, well it never fulfilled its job, it never managed to civilize humanity. It managed to homogenize it, but not to civilize it, because I guess God's two are limited, you know, and I mean, deeply limited, after all they all experience so many mutations. And I guess that it's only now that humanity itself is in the face of a huge mutation, but it's going to make the God had irrelevant, unnecessary, like a kind of relic from the past in which humanity had no data, no scientific data about a form. And we have, you have to function with, you know, faith, filling all the loopholes in our, in our database with faith, faith in a, in some kind of preconceived homogenized order, because this is where we get. You know, when you think that you are being most mythological, that you are conceiving, you know, the order of the universe, you're still, you're still caught up in the great of the consciousness of these forces. It's difficult to liberate the mind, it's really difficult. I mean, it's not something you can do. It really isn't, or the, let's say the only thing you can do in order for that ever to happen is surrender to your phone, the deeper you surrender to your form, and you let your form carry you forward in life. Well, the deeper also the disarming of your not self mind, the deeper the realization that you can move in life without resistance, and you don't need to be, you know, always holding on to your reasons. And the more you practice that, of course, the more you know the, what happens in the mental field of your experience slowly, but surely, is transformed in its quality, in its orientation, and most of all, I guess, in the power that drives and focuses your mental process. What you see here is, is an illustration of, well, the 16 God heads aligned, the color coding matches them by quarter. This is their order around the wheel. And you can see this is here on the right. This is my design. Here you see the complete picture. You can see that they had an ashyna are defined through the channels of logic and abstraction. I'm a triple split emotional manifestor and my personality son is here. I'm the cross of consciousness, which is the gates five and thirty five and the sixty three and the sixty four, which is where my mental definition comes from. But my son, my personality son is here in five in an open sacro. And you can see here that this is the God had that's called Prometheus. And you can see that within the quarter of mutation, which is here and the quarter of mutation, this is all about, well, the transformation of awareness through experience. The transformation of awareness through experience. But here you can see that each of the four faces of mutation, you know, that they all have the Yang Yang at the base. And because the Yang Yang is at the base, they all four are about pushing the transformation of awareness based on personal experience. But then they each carry a different binary in their womb in those third and fourth lines. You can see, for example, that haters, you know, carries a double Yang Yang. You know, the first gate here carries the triple Yang Yang, the most Yang of all gates, the creative. So this is about, you know, the transformation of awareness through personal experience by transforming awareness and personal experience in others. You know, by impacting others with your awareness. Very different to Prometheus. The symbol, the message of Prometheus is the Yang with the Yin up on top. This is the mind penetrating the Yin. This is the learning, the learning. This is the transformation of awareness through individual experience. But the only experiences that are going to transform the awareness here are the experiences that bring learning. I know. I know. I've always learned from experience as a one, three. And until, you know, I, in my open G, you know, I was always looking for an identity first professionally. You know, something that would put an end to my learning. So I too could dedicate myself to transform the awareness of others with my methodology. I didn't know at the time. You know, I thought at the time that a learning is just a start, you know, that the best, the best you find when you get to teach. When you become a master yourself, a teacher yourself, there was so much seven center, you know? I mean, I do have the grace and the privileges of having a job that I just love, you know, being a human-designed teacher, being a human-designed professional. But the deepest grace that I have, I'm learning all day. I'm learning, you know, I'm not, I mean, I'm learning without study. In the way life reveals itself to me. It seems to me like the order of the universe is building and destroying itself every five minutes in my consciousness. In my consciousness. You know, changing at such an incredible speed that, you know, all pressure. Pressure. Inner pressure of mind to change anything on the outside has disappeared. It's gone. It's gone. And as a one, three, you know, I'm always investigating, but that investigation is not a search for identity anymore. It's a finding. It's a learning, you know, recycling the same questions, finding different answers empirically, moment by moment by moment, with everyone that goes, it comes in and goes out of my aura. All the, well, everything that comes through my awareness, through my perception, you know, no conclusion. I'm not looking for any conclusion anymore. I'm fine with questions, you know, those questions. Remember that this Yang Ying, we saw, you know, this is symbolized by the triple Yang Ying in Mita questions. Purpose. Now it has become my, my purpose. But it's not so long ago. You know, that I would eventually be, you know, collapse always that I stopped. Collapsing always as a servant of Prometheus. You know, my anger explosions, which I hate more than anyone that receives the discharge. Because for me, you know, every catharsis of anger, it's a place where on the inside, I'm broken as a triple split. I may look very solid to the outside, but on the inside, like every triple split, I'm deeply fragile. And I only burst into an emotional catharsis if my spirit breaks. And by spirit, I mean the inner strength to master my moods and its expression. You know, so I would always end up living out the Promethean myth, my variation of the Promethean myth. And Promethean myth, I don't know if you know, Prometheus stole the fire from the gods to give it to humanity. He actually, you know, was the one that equaled us to the gods, made us in their image. As if he was doing us a favor when in truth he wasn't. He was just basically showing his finger to the other gods, you know, and trying to show them, you know, what he thought of them. By making some figures out of clay and, you know, blowing into them and just giving them some life. He was showing the other gods, this is what you are to me, just clay figures. You know, he was trying to insult the other gods by showing them how dumb they were like humans. You know, he was not making us equal. You know, he wasn't considering the consequences of making us that smart and unaware. Like gods are, listen to their look to their stories. I mean, you know, they didn't have a lot of respect for each other. They had greater struggle with each other than humans have, even. You know, but it's not just, well, Prometheus eventually was punished and his punishment was rather cruel, you know. He was put on a, on a, on a top of a mountain, tied on, on the top of a mountain and every night an eagle would, would descend and eat his liver. Then on the day, his liver would grow back so that at the night the bird would come and eat it again to him. This is how I always felt with humanity, you know. Always looking for, you know, a good friend to trust and always meeting that, you know, those that I trust the most are those that can hurt and disappoint me the deepest and they always do. And when they do, oh, Prometheus, you know, my trust is gone. You know, my trust is gone because there isn't a single human being. There doesn't seem to be a single human being that you can trust, including me. That, you know, makes me feel so sorry for being human. It takes away all the grace of being human. I love human. You know, I live that, without so much all these expectations of humans that because I trust you, you are supposed to show, you know, God-like qualities. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I trust you, or better not. What human beings expect just because mentally they have decided to trust this or that, this person or that person. You know, I'm thinking that that's the best of themselves because they trust. And it's not just, you know, Prometheus because I happen to have my personality son there. We know that the sun determines 70% of our programming. So obviously through the personality son, we're going to have a very strong resonance to the myths of whatever the Godhead happens to be that is part of that quartet of gates that makes up that is of which our personality son is apart. But it's much more, for example, you can see Mithra, you know, is made of the gates 37, 22, 36, and 63. So I got, I not only have three out of those four gates, I have them defined. You know, so the whole and one of them is my personality Earth. You know, it means that I become in my personality a combination of themes without even knowing. I start my relationships as a Mithra person, you know, and I end them up as a Prometheus person. You know, always driven by your knots of mind, you know, that is ignoring its own form because both things I do as a manifesting generator that I have never been, that I will never be. That's a sacral being that is supposed to be available and public and social that I am not, that I am not. You know, or here you have Vishnu, which is made out of the 10, the 54, the 38, and the 58. Now you can see that my personality Sun is not there and yet can I be heavy? Oh, can I be heavy? This Vishnu quality is there. You know, and they are embodied, I embody them unconsciously. You know, just the way I represent whatever my knots of mind thinks are my convictions because only when you are convinced, can you generalize me? Human beings we are so vain in our knots of our duty. We generalize so happily. You know, and these forces are the ones who give us the power to do so and think that that is expression of our intelligence or awareness and it is not. It is really not. You know, and you may not realize it because we don't, you know, we are not very aware about ourselves and those teams and that myth of yours that your personality connects you to. So deeply colors your life. So deeply colors your life. That I was someone, you know, look at this. This is my personality Sun. Now I am 51. This is the quarter of mutation and the quarter of mutation, you know, this is the quarter of the old. It's the quarter of death as the ultimate mutation. And because it's the awareness of death, it's also the awareness of anything that could exist, could maybe who knows after death. So I was, you know, anybody that is born with the personality Sun in a gate of the quarter of mutation, these are children that are very afraid of God. Especially because most gods, they're punishing. If you break their rules, you know, the rules of your parents are an extension of God's rules, the rules of society that is. It carries those God-like values at the basis of the laws, the morality, all of them. I was so afraid of God. Then there was this question inside my sense of God. Now what if, will God be happy if I do like this? Will it be happy if I'm happier if I do like that? Am I doing something wrong, God, if I do what I want? Always there this question. Because this is not mine. This is the spirit, you know, pushing its way through life and very afraid of what might happen if, what might happen if I mean I cannot tell you. Every time you look at my design, I would have to make a choice because I didn't know how to make decisions. I had to make a choice from up here with all this pressure from below, you know, from Vishnu and all this pressure from above, you know, and all this metrophores coming here and my poor little unexperienced Prometheus in the middle of saying, oh my God, you know. Uncertain, uncertain. You know, of how other people would react, how I would feel, you know, uncapable of establishing what is the best for me? Uncapable of this question always inside was only after my satan return that I started trusting not my certainties because I didn't have any. I started trusting that making mistakes was not necessarily bad. You know, that I started trusting my experience that I started trusting my emotions. It was just my good fortune to meet people on the way that got me into experiences that actually transformed my awareness. You know, and helped me transform mistakes into lessons into learning, not into condemnation. You know, I used to be so heavy on people making mistakes, especially me because otherwise, you know, it's illegit, but you condemn others too. You know, and it was not like I was doing that all the time, no, but hell, I was doing it when it mattered most. I'm a one three in the moment of breaking a bond, you know, breaking it so badly that there was no way left to reestablish it, no way. You know, this Yang Yang, Yang Yang, actually, because when you bring, you know, the Yang Yang and the bottom together with the Yang, you know, on top, you have three Yangs at the bottom. Totally, totally distorted in my mind this Yang, you know, this incapacity to embrace myself as an emotional being as an emotional manifesto, super emotional. And it was all, you know, barriers, mental barriers, let barriers upon barriers in my personality. And we all have them, you know, we all have them. And this is why deconditioning is so difficult because you don't disarm your mind at this level by thinking about it. You know, you don't decondition your mind and the attitude your mind has in relationships unless you experience relationships altogether differently from the moment of starting them. In the way you present yourself to someone else, that's the only way that your mind can look at relationships in a different way. If you give yourself a chance to feel and experience something different, first, first otherwise your not-sof mind is going to take you to reproduce the familiar patterns over and over and over again. But it doesn't matter that you know your strategy. You know, it doesn't even matter that you enter correctly into it. It's about staying correct and you're not getting its hands back on. In the way it interprets, you know, what happens there, the friction, the moment things get difficult and you get hurt, which happens easy. You know, how does your mind deal with it? I know. I mean, you know, I've entered correctly into relationships. And well, you know, it does not mean that mastering my fears, mastering my habits, my mental habits was something that was going to happen overnight. No. It was only living, daring to live with my emotional authority up front, up front, in my mind. Just one step behind. You know, that slowly but surely it lost its power. You know, it lost its power and my life, it's not anymore, it's empire. And even though in the beginning it seemed to be a great loss for my mind over time as my awareness has been transformed. You know, it's not the whole universe. The whole universe has become not so much its empire, but it's playing ground because by now this is the only thing that my mind is allowed to do in my life to play. To play with what's around, to play in its imagination with, you know, the ocean of possibilities that it can conceive. But it doesn't matter what it thinks because it's never allowed to do anything about what is just because it happens to think this or that at any given moment. And in that, well, I've come to experience the grace of a universe that seems to be full of me, you know, full of me, full of my mind in that sense. You know, it's like with my mind they can touch everything that is there. I don't control it. I don't possess it. I don't determine it. But hey, it's the perfect life for me to live and for my mind to double, to learn, to explore, to turn things around, to look at them from a different perspective. You know, and I have come to enjoy being human and having a mind that entertains me and demieses me without, you know, without distorting me and without determining the when and the how I communicate with others. It's just a means, it has become just a means to myself expression and when there is no one to express myself to, it entertains me, you know. And that's the beauty mind is beautiful, but you have to get all these guys out of your system. And when I say all, I mean, we all have them all because we all carry, you know, all kinds of receptors to them and we get to, to them by the people in our lives. But if you take a look at these themes in your design, you will see how much of a potential resonance you have to this one more than to that one. And, you know, you know, someone who's design shows you how they are, they embody this force with their life force. And it's very amusing, it's very amusing to look at others as representatives of these forces, you know, because we are. We are, I mean, it's not like we can eliminate these forces from the plane, we cannot, all we can do is free our consciousness from, you know, yeah, making us subservient to them, you know, we don't need to oppose them, we can let them be what they are and by doing so. You can actually be amused because when you understand those forces and, and the way they operate, it's easier to understand and accept the farce and the, of the second hand drama that is lived out by humanity on this plane. I mean, you know, it's still tragic because people are dying, but it's kind of hilarious because it's, you know, it's just like a bad movie that keeps repeating itself, you know, where it doesn't even bring any real surprise. And it won't, the only way to be surprised is if you, if you do enter into this process of decommissioning yourself from, not self consciousness, not self divinity, not self morality, not self philosophies and free your mind from all of those things because that's what, that's what opens up the door. For to you first, perceiving magic and secondly, you know, to enable yourself to express yourself uniquely, to, you know, to find a place inside of a differentiated awareness that enables you to express through, through outer authority and not just second hand concepts with which, well, you put your stuff on top of some, of someone else's and it's never about you or the other, but about your stuff or the other stuff because this is what the not self might deals with most of the time, just stuff, stuff that is, that does not represent you really. Okay, as a gift, while I was waiting for you, I played with the illustrations a little bit that I had, this isn't image that someone sent me of a very beautiful take of the Iful tour I suppose, and I just figured, yeah, everything can be seen as a mandala. So, I hope you enjoyed that, I hope, yeah, you found that amusing and inspiring in connection to the theme of the Godhead. Now, the theme of the Godhead has been extensively treated by Ra himself in the course that is called quarter by quarter. It has been on a very strong promotion in Joggen, I think that they raised the price a little bit again, but it never went back to what was the original cost. It's an amazing course, if any of you wants to take a deeper look into it. I think also Lila and her men elaborated on those themes around the wheel on a later time. Who knows, who knows if I'm going to elaborate on some practical work on it, like working with the Ibiza event, I will look at some charts of participants, like I'm doing here, like I did here with my in connection to the Godhead. Who knows, maybe one day I also give myself the pleasure of going around the wheel in English when I finish doing it in German like I do it now, but it's not going to be for now, it's not going to be in a while, amongst other things, because it has been extensively covered. So if you guys did not do that before and would like to do a deeper into these themes, I highly recommend you to look into those recorded materials that are to be found either on Joggen, the one from Ra, or surely in the IHDS, the ones from Lila and her men. For the rest, I hope you all enjoyed that. And since I'm not in a hurry to close, I do want to give you an opportunity to say whatever or to ask anything or to comment anything before I close. So here's the mic. Alok, I just thank you very much for this. I'm a new person to human design, but what I found fascinating. I have 13 so it's the Kelly gate and my I'm 61 and my whole life has been about finding the one thing that applies to everyone spiritually. So it's so it was very interesting to watch what you were doing and just passing. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, guys. You know, I guess my way of delivering is also such that they kind of doesn't really invite to make questions when I'm done because I am, you know, the emotional load that comes is so strong that I think at first you are so impacted that your mind. So yeah, you know, if over the week or in the course of time you have any, any ponderings around this team that you want to communicate with me, you know, I'm kind of always happy to. To to ponder, you know, these forces because well they have so deeply shaped the world that we live in. No, no, no, he didn't he didn't get that from the boys now, no, no, he did that later actually, you know, I think it's important that you guys know that you know these are just he had to pick one, okay, but you know there are. Yahweh instead of Vishnu if you put Yahweh, you know, he will do a justice good job, you know, or yeah, there are there are you know here, he is this is also. Pluto for the Romans so you know every mythology is basically having the same. Forces in a set of high work he saw, Rajas picked one in order to describe you know what actually is. Chemistry you know when you can see the chemistry you can see the psychology of the Godhead is contained within you know the. The binary theme of the of the quartet of gates you know the gates three and four on the inside I mean just by looking at that in any sequence of four gates around the wheel it's just something amazing to realize you know that the four subsequent gates share the same by your chemical structure. In the first four lines I mean just to see that it's like a ha because you start seeing you start seeing a connection between gates that you don't see on the surface of the body graph and it's so deep that it's amazing. Why no nice to meet you again in the flow Nancy to all of you have a jolly flow look forward to meeting you in the visa or wherever in the virtual round wherever our paths cross again by my pleasure to share.