 Hey, hey my fellow travelers on this spaceship Earth, spiraling through space and time. Welcome to the faces of mutation. All right, so what we're going to do in this particular lecture is we're going to give a very general overview as to just what the quarter, what it consists of, what it's purpose is, and you know some some fun facts that Lila just loves to share. So we're going to we're going to take a look at next slide please. What we're going to be dealing with is understanding the wheel and how the quarters progress. We're going to understand, you know, the faces of mutation themselves. We're going to look at the historical seven centered understanding. We're going to take a quick glance at the nine centered potential. And then we're going to talk about, you know, how this applies in our lives, you know, is this program, this quarter mutation, is it part of our design? You know, do we resonate to the influence of the faces? And is this part of our openness? Is it part of our how we're conditioned by their influence or are we conditioned at all? So that's kind of what we're going to be looking at. And Lila? Yeah. And just for those of you that I know there's some that are taking this course by download. If there are questions that come up, you can always email us with your questions. And for those of you that are taking the class, the download will be available in the Jam Player for one week because this is a lecture series and not a course, they're not going to be there for all five weeks. So you do need to get the download within that first week. Or, you know, if you need a copy, you can always email me. So that's just a little of the housekeeping. So now let's take a look here specifically about the program itself. I know we talk a lot about the program, but what are we really looking at here? In essence, the wheel itself provides the structure of life on this planet. And it's the way that our planet is actually programmed. And we're going to take a closer look at that. But that's a very profound statement. You know, Rha talks a lot about the happy accident of life on planet Earth. You know, it is a matter of being in that perfect place, in that serendipity of space and time that this planet receives all of the neutrino data coming through the universe in a particular pattern. And it does program the way of life here. And the real key for us as human beings is that the program deeply affects the mind, often without our notice. Now, when we learn to operate correctly according to our strategy and authority, the program begins to lose its hold over our life. But it still can affect the mind because on a deep cellular level, we are, as human beings, built to receive that neutrino data. And we are like vast filtering mechanisms. You know, I think of, you know, like the whales and how they filter the tiny plankton. We are like that in terms of filtering the neutrino data. And it can condition us often without noticing. It affects the internal state. We may have gotten some better use of the vehicle through our strategy and authority. It may not make it out to the surface of our life, but it can still affect our very thoughts. Now, the other piece is that, you know, we wouldn't have our design without it. And it actually supplies the imprint data for incarnating beings, both the design and the personality data. You know, in essence, in our rave chart is this snapshot of what the influences were at that moment of our birth. And then on the design side, you know, 88 to 89 days prior. And it is a function of the program itself. Remember the program, this strategic construct that we evolved as our mental awareness, the program is set up. We set it up as part of what was necessary in order for the species to survive and continue to thrive. That's its whole purpose. So it's going to supply the data for the incarnating being not as an individual, which is where human design comes in, but rather as an implement of the program. So these themes that recur year after year after year have been evolving as we have been evolving. But genetically, our very being, every single moment of every single day is still being bombarded with the information that the neutrino stream brings. So this is a, it's like our genes are, they had their own intelligence and they receive this information, which they then process. And there are certain programmed responses that we have evolved through the last several thousand years. And so that's what we're going to break down. You know, we're going to demystify the process in which the program operates in our lives. So just a little basis, because I know we had, for a lot of you, this will be review, but we have a variety of people in this lecture series and we want to make sure that, you know, we cover all the aspects. And one of the key features of being human is that we are genetically predisposed to make more. That is our genetic imperative. And one of our last lecture series, we talked about how the human race, ethnographers, archaeologists now believe that the human population was down to about 20,000 right before the last ice age, about 75,000 years ago. And that we are descended. Seven billion of us have descended from that 20,000. 20,000 is a very small population. I mean, it's about the size of, you know, the number of people living in Sedona, Arizona. It's a small group of people. We have descended from that because of this predisposition to make more. It is a strong drive, this survival thing. And within that is the attraction to do it to make more with someone who is the most genetically different from us as possible. Because of the limited population that was our source, it was to the advantage of the genes to try to attract as much variety in the offspring as possible. Because children who are born from parents that are genetically similar have limitations, but physically and mentally, you produce the greatest potential for intelligence and physical survival if the parents are genetically different. Now it would be fine if this drive to make more and be attracted to people who are different than us was just on a sexual level. But what the mind does is it takes that genetic imperative to the most subtle degree and it turns into this attraction to difference. On a mechanical level, this drives us to seek what we are not and to perceive it as necessary for our survival. This survival drive is so strong in us. In essence, if we have the 50th gate in our design and it is open at the other end, the mind perceives that openness as a threat to our survival. And it will do whatever it can to find someone or a transit of the program to fit the deal that openness in at the other end. And it is all an imperative based upon survival. In essence, the mind is trying to control the life because it does not have a life of its own. It's in essence, you know, trying to do the best that it can. And it is all based upon this survival mechanism. So on a very basic level, openness seeks definition. And every hanging gate in our design is a receptor that is busy seeking its opposite by the mind. When it finds its complement, it wants to make a permanent connection. So for example, you know, if you had the gate at the other end here, if you had the 19th gate and the transits are providing the 49th gate, this is going to be a very attractive kind of conditioning for you. So the program provides this variety of influences which then the mind grabs a whole of and says, okay, we've got this now. We can act upon it. We can make decisions upon it. We can run the life from this conditioning. Now when we're following our strategy and authority, often it doesn't make it to the surface of our life. And it stays a mental sort of process. But it's still there. I mean, the mind literally runs on the program itself. And the more we study the program, the more we see how the mind itself is conditioned by it. So the mind is driven to seek out the openness. And it is the prime conditioning for the not self world. It affects the mind deeply, often without notice. And in our own lives, Derman and I, you know, charted the transits of the moon, but also of the other planets in our design. In essence, our experience of human design began from the inside out. We studied through our own experience. What does the 49th gate bring? What does it feel like? How is it different when the 49 moves on? What does my mind say about the energy that the 49th gate brings? These are the keys. This is the process that we are, in essence, initiating for you through this particular face of mutation. So as we go through the faces of mutation, we're going to talk about the kind of archetypes that these faces bring. Now one of the things that we've found over the years is that we can be influenced by these archetypes because the way in which the Maya has been built up, this collective illusion of life on planet earth that is built of cycle after cycle of these influences, it has become threads in our cultural conditioning so that even when the first gate isn't active in a transit, this influence of, we all need to be very creative in our lives and, you know, creativity is important. Life is an act of creation. That becomes a conditioning element for the mind itself. You know, we end up trying to be all things to all people instead of living out our limitation. Every one of us are limited by the design that we have. We have a combination of openness and activation, some of which create definition for some of this. And the beauty is that we're actually designed to be conditioned. I mean, it's not that conditioning in and of itself is a bad thing. We are designed with our openness and it's in that openness that we actually get to experience the other in life, the other in the experience of this life. So it's not that conditioning in and of itself is a bad thing. It's just that if you don't know what conditions you, then your mind continues to use that information to determine how you're going to live your life. To judge you, to blame you, to shame you, to be the critic, all of that stuff that the mind does, all of the ideas that it tells us that we should put into action, all of that. Anything that the mind does that is oriented towards ourselves is built on conditioning. Now the mind is not a bad thing either, just like conditioning is not. But the mind is here to be of service to others, to develop its own unique perceptions of life that's based upon being at the right place, at the right time, to see what it is, that there's there for us to see so that we develop our unique viewpoint and out of that our own distinct way of conceptualizing. But that's for the other, to share with others so that the wisdom and variety of life begins to blossom for each other. The mind is not here to run our own life. This is a great tool. Anytime the mind is talking to us about ourselves, it's conditioning. Anytime that it's talking to another person, there's the possibility that it actually has something interesting to share. That's a possibility. Okay, so back to the oil. Let's start breaking this down. The quarter of mutation begins when the sun moves into the first gate. That's going to happen on November 5th this year. We tied the time this course very closely. Right now we're in the run-up to it, the moon's in the 28th gate. It will take us all the way over here. We'll actually start our new year with the sun in the 41st gate in this quarter of mutation. Now one of the things to notice in the wheel is that the sun and the earth are in opposition to each other. There is always this dynamic between the two, but it's more than just an opposition in the wheel. This is actually a pair bond in our genetics. This is something to realize that on a genetic level, that every time we see the sun in one gate, it's a genetic opposite. Now I'm talking about the DNA strands. Remember, we have this double helix and the codons of our DNA are pair bonded. So the codon, which we'll talk more about, for the first gate is paired by the codon of the second gate. The Maya itself, the very word of the Maya, means to measure. It means to separate mentally into this and that. And the very nature of the wheel and the construct of it separates life into this and that. We always have this polar opposite of this and that. And it's this collective illusion built upon cycle after cycle of the sun passing through each quarter by quarter that has developed the Maya itself. Now when we look a little deeper at the wheel, we see here, you know, it's separated into these quarters. And at the core, we have something very interesting in this diagram. We have actually a representation here of the crystals. The relationship between the two crystals, the design crystal and the personality crystal and the magnetic monopole, which holds them together and in an illusion of their separateness. And those are the 16 original bundles, the crystal bundles for the personality. They are programming the personality crystal itself, the design crystal, it's, it's uniform. It's a consistent neutrino filter. It does not have the influence of these different facets, the same way that the personality crystal. In essence, there's one core design crystal and it's found deep in the earth's core and there's this one crystal bundle that translates one unified message of information to our evolving form. So for the most part, all humans look alike. They share the same basics. You know, all horses look alike. They share the same basics and so forth and so on. This is the design side. The design of form has this consistency. And in terms of our evolution, in essence, the design crystal bundle, you know, they sent out a, you know, early chromagnan form and then a homosapian form and then a homosapian and transits. Each evolutionary shift brought a new model of form. And you know, the thing about the nine centered form is that we don't really know all of its bells and whistles. We don't really know all the potential of what it can do. But everyone that has been born since 1781 got the nine centered form. There's a consistency there. But on the personality side, there are 16 facets. There are six 16 different personality crystal bundles and it's the combination of these 16 which makes up planet earth. It makes up the Maya that we live in. You see, the Maya is all connected to the personality. The surface in essence of the earth, the surface of life on the planet, this experiential soup that we live in is made up of these 16 different facets. And it's chemical in nature and each one of them filters the neutrino information differently. So if you're born with the sun in the first gate, you're tied to the first crystal bundle. Just so happens that the first facet is here with the first gate. So we're actually starting out the wheel. If you were born with the sun in the 44th gate, you're actually tied to the 16th crystal bundle. So each one of these facets is tied to a slightly different time of the year. And there are archetypes or influences to the way in which the neutrino data is filtered connected with this particular facet. And the thing to recognize about these archetypes, I'm going to show you a map now that kind of brings all of this into perspective. You know, we were looking at these quarters here. Well, each quarter has four archetypes associated with it. Each one of those is connected like here in mutation to a different crystal bundle. This is facet one, facet two, facet three, and facet four. So as far as the way in which the data is filtered, it's actually the personality crystal is filtering through that. So one, two, three, four is right here in this quarter of mutation. So the thing to recognize is that these particular faces, because of their archetype in nature, because they have a different filtering mechanism, they really don't like each other. They are in essence in competition with one another. They don't like giving up territory, they don't like giving up control. They have a different thematic that they're here to use, you know, to bring into influence in the planet itself. And we're going to look at the thematics that are associated within this quarter of mutation. In essence is like that old movie, The War of the Titans, you know. Prometheus has a different thematic that is at war with the thematic of Hades. That's at war with the thematic of Manurba, and they compete for our attention. So there are 16 archetypes, 16 in essence names for the qualities of godliness. And you know, in our history, in seven centered history, we turn them into gods. These are the faces of the god heads themselves. In the Islamic tradition, there are 99 names for God. Well, you can divide those 99 names into 16 different themes. The gods of Olympus, the gods of Troy, the gods of, you know, the Middle East, the Persians, the Chinese, every single culture ties into these 16 thematics. And the consistency is that you're going to find these 16 themes in pretty much every culture of the world, because these are the programming agents of the Maya itself. They give us insight into how human beings are influenced in the Maya, how they are driven to act. In essence, we're all designed to be puppets tied to the strings of their influence. And what human design does is says, no, we honor our past, but we are not here to filter the neutrino data, the way in which Hades programs us. We're here to filter it uniquely as ourselves through our design crystal. Yes, we honor the intelligence of the mind, but we're here to let the life belong to the body, where there isn't this 16 different ways of living life that war with one another. So each of these faces has their own agenda, which can make it really challenging for the passenger, which is why it becomes essential to follow the strategy and authority of the vehicle, the very way in which the neutrino data is filtered is different by the design crystal or by the personality crystal. The design has one unified way in which it filters the data. Now, added to this is that there's fragmentation, which is taken place. This is an ancient, ancient way in which the Maya developed over time. And part of this fragmentation is because the way in which the personality crystals were built to operate is that they would come into incarnation, have a life experience, and then go back to their crystal bundle with this life experience, with this increase in wisdom. And wow, you know, this is what life is like on planet Earth now, not in those words, but in essence, because the personality crystals aren't making it back to the bundle because of the way in which, you know, bodies are dealt with at death, the crystals are losing, the crystal bundles are lacking in replenishment. The God's stories are blurring between one another. The multiplicity of the God heads is starting to lose its connection here on planet Earth. It's not so cut and dried the way it was if we were alive during Roman times, you know, you had your God heads, you prayed to the God heads, life was guided by the God heads, and that's the way it was. Now, it's kind of like, well, there are nice little stories. And the influence is much more subtle, but it's still there. And we find this multi-faceted aspect of, is historical, that, you know, having polytheism is very much a part of the past. But for the last 2,000 years, we've been moving away from this polytheism, and it's a sign of the diminishing influence of the God heads themselves. Monotheism is a more modern approach, but it denies the influence of these 16 archetypes. So we have this interesting duality in our modern world, in that we have these personality crystals that are still filtering away based upon their unique faceted information. But we live in a culture that is more homogenized than ever. Instead of, you know, a life in which where we might have been connected to a warrior cult, or we might have, you know, honored the Vesta, the goddess of heart and home, we're supposed to be, you know, all things to all people, and our God is all things to all people. And we're in God's image, so we're supposed to be all things to all people. It's not a bad thing, but you got to realize that there is this subtle disconnect in our modern world. On the one hand, we're more homogenized than ever, and at the same time, we don't acknowledge the differences that are fundamental to who we are. Now just remember, this program was essential for the survival of our species. But what has happened is our survival is no longer an issue. I mean, we're surviving better than any other species on the planet. So survival is no longer an issue. So it's now that this information, this human design information has come forward so that we can begin to break away from the bounds that are made on us by the program and begin to live the individual experience that we're meant for. And so what we're doing for you is we're providing you with a construct that you can begin to look at in terms of not only how you're impacted by it, but how the people in your life are impacted by it, by how the society that you find yourself is impacted by it, by the country that you find yourself in and how that. I mean, this is all pervasive. This goes through every aspect of human life on this planet. And as you begin to get familiar with these archetypes, you can begin to see them in the news, in the way people relate to one another out in the world. And in your own mind, you can begin to, oh, so that thing that's telling me that I should be a good daughter or a good son to my parents is just part of conditioning field. Okay, so we're going to go a little deeper into the wheel. So you begin to understand the structure that we're looking at. The wheel is divided into four quarters. And each quarter has a specific genetic theme. Quarter we're going to deal with is mutation, but there's also the quarter of initiation, civilization, and we're just moving out of the quarter of duality. And each quarter begins with a sphinx cross. Midpoint is across the vessel of love, and each one of them ends with across the four ways. So we have an orientation here that is consistent throughout the wheel. Each one of the quarters is influenced by a specific star. Now, we talk about the neutrino ocean, but neutrinos is a good percentage of them come from the sun itself, but the other stars and also Jupiter provide a lot of the neutrino data. So in mutation, we're dealing with the realm of serious. What is the brightest binary star, the closest to the sun, and mutation moves through the totality. It is all of the mutation that we see present in the world takes place through this quarter, and the people that incarnate in this quarter are what bring mutation into the world itself. And in essence, the theme of this quarter is purpose-filled through transformation. That it is transformation that human life finds its fulfillment. And there is the theme of the acceptance of death. And as we see next week, we start with the face of Hades itself. Now, the wheel is divided into yin and yang. Half of the wheel is yang, and half of the wheel is yin. So if you look at the base chop, what you see is the chop of mutation is a solid line. That's a yang line. That means that the focus is male, the focus is mental, and then when you get down to civilization, you see that the chop is a broken line, and that means that the focus is female. The focus is form. And these basic focuses are what continue to move through the wheel. So in that opposition, like I was showing you, the first gate is a yang, yang, gate. And its opposition in the wheel is a yin, yang, gate. All of the gates of mutation are this double yang in the bottom of the hexagram, and their oppositions are going to be the double yang. Now, initiation, you see some a little different. The bottom pair, the bottom of the bottom pair is yang. And then above it is a yang line. So it's yang base, just like mutation, has a yang base, but the next line up is yin. Its opposition, remember, this whole half of the wheel is yin. So duality begins with the yin, just like civilization, but its next line is yang. And you see this balance then between initiation and duality of the yang, yin, and then the yin, yang. So there is a natural symmetry here that we're seeing. And it's in the foundation of the hexagrams itself. And let's move on to the next here. Yeah, we're not going to go into all of the aspects of these different quarters. We'll do that, and we've done that in some of the classes before and other classes. We've got this. Okay, next thing is to break the hexagram code. Now, you're going to teach you how to read the six lines of a hexagram. The bottom pair of the hexagram gives you what the quarter is. Remember, this whole half of the wheel, the very, very bottom is yang. This half of the wheel is yin. But the quarter of mutation, the bottom pair, is a double yang. And then we have this yang in and on from there. But this ties to our genetics as well. The codons are built on four bases. So here's our double yang, our yang in, our yang and our double yang. Each one of those ties to a particular nucleotide. Nuclear ties bond together in three's to form a particular genetic code on. So, in this example, we have a yin and then a yang in and then a yang. So if we were to translate that to the genetic level, we have the codon of u, c, a. And that would put us here, u, c, a, forms the amino acid searing. And remember, there's 20 amino acids and 64 different gates. So here in the quarter of mutation, remember the quarter is the base pair. So the thing about all four bases is that the bottom of the hexagrams all have the double yang, which in our genetic code is adenosine A. The middle pair determines the face. So starting in Hades in the quarter, the middle pair is also a double yang. So we have this A, A in all of the codons of the face of Hades. In Prometheus, we switch to the yang yin, which we see here in our little map, yang yin is the c, its cytosine. So the entire face of Prometheus begins with the A of the yang yang, and then it goes to the C of yang yin. Down here in Vishnu, we have the double yang, and then all four gates of the face have the yang of guanin. And then over here in the keepers of the wheel, the last face of the quarter, we have the double yang, and then all four gates have the ureth sill, the double yang. Now what you'll see here is that the individual gates, in every face, one of them carries the yang, yang of adenosine. They carry the yang yin of cytosine. One of them carries the yang, guanin, and one of them carries the double yang of ureth sill. So in the face of Hades, we have the most yang of all gates, the first gate. It is the yang quarter, the yang face, and the yang gate in terms of the hexagram pairs. So it is a triple A, it's AA, AA, in terms of its codon, and when we look AA, forms lysine. Okay, so the entire wheel breaks down. We have 64 codons, which translates to 64 gates, and all of them are made up of these 20 amino acids, which are all made out of three pairs of hexagrams. Here's our triple A, triple yang of the first gate down here. So this map in essence, you could plot out all 64 gates, and how they look, but I've actually got a slide for you here. We can see here, we've got the first gate with its six yang, so the double yang, double yang, double yang, which translates in genetic language to AA, AA, and it is lysine. So what that means is that every gate carries with it the message of its genetic construct. It carries the theme of the quarter. It carries the theme of the face, and it carries the theme of the gate itself. And that's really beautiful when you think about it. I mean, it's like it's so symmetrical. Yeah, so symmetrical. And what is really fascinating is that when you look at your design, you can see what your chemical impulses are based on the chemistry itself. And that's what our limitations are based on. They're based on our chemistry and how that chemistry is imprinted. Now, all of us have all 64 genetic codons. I mean, this is the very language of our genetic material. But if we have the first gate in our design, that is something that is highlighted in our genetics. It actually means that we have a predisposition towards lysine in our chemistry. And we're going to resonate whenever the program is filtering the first gate. We're going to resonate down in our genetics with that lysine. And that lysine carries the messages of mutation. So all of these different codons become messenger pathways within our very form itself. But deeper than that, I mean, this is our chemistry we're looking at here. I mean, 64 codons, there's also some stuff codons and the different aspects here. You know, this map is a deep map when you take a look at it. You can see here there are a couple that form stuff codons. And in essence, some of these different codons are just different spellings for the same amino acid. So like in, I'm going the wrong direction. So like if we look at the face of Prometheus, it is the amino acid-3anine. But spelled four different ways. There are four codons and it's the only place in the entire wheel that 3anine as an amino acid appears. And it's spelled ACA, ACC, ACG, or ACU. And remember, they're always going to bond with their opposition in the wheel as well. And that's, oops, I'm sorry, I'm lost with, I get so excited about this. This is where the bond on the other side, you know, the first codon is AA, AA, and it's going to bond with the second gate, which is UUU. And you know, it's a beautiful symmetry that we have in our genetics. And it's in every cell in our body. So you have to see here how deeply we resonate to the programming field. We are in response to it regardless of our tire. You know, Ross says, you know, we're responsive beings. Yes, we are constantly responding within the wheel itself. We're responding to all of this genetic material. But the mind gets a hold of this chemistry. So when Lysine is coursing through our veins, when it's highlighted in the programming, in the neutrino data is sending all of this signal in our Lysine. It also affects the mind. The mind in essence is a software program that interprets the chemistry, which is a very interesting thing. And then it uses it for the basis of decision making. Now, the mind is a subtle program. I mean, yes, we may be following our strategy and authority on the surface in our lives. But what I begin to recognize is how subtle these impulses can be. How that my body's energy, you know, my mind thinks about something as a stressor. And all of a sudden, my whole being is responding to that chemically. But the beauty of what it is that we're showing you is that you can begin to see it. You can begin to notice it. And, you know, we see through our eyes. So we see outside first. So you start to follow the program. What is the program showing you that begins to show you what your mind is working with? Then, you know, you practice more and then you begin to notice what your mind says when the program is running a certain stream of information. I mean, folks, you know, that in essence, this is the ciphering code that you're getting in terms of awareness itself. Okay. That's pretty much. I think she's talked to so much. Well, we've covered a lot of ground. A lot of ground. A lot of ground. So we're going to open it up. And if you guys have, you know, any questions, please don't hesitate. You know, it's through the exchange that you can really deepen your feel for the information. So we're going to unlatch. And yeah, so fire away. Go draw. Draw. Okay. So Beth asked describe the best way to track this program. The best way is to on a daily basis. Look at your chart and look at what the program is bringing on that day. And what you will notice is that there are recurring quarters where the theme remains pretty much the same. So in mutation, mutation is always going to be about transformation. Initiation. Initiation is always going to be about initiating, you know, getting started, getting the form started in life. Civilization is about how to maintain the continuity of the form. Right? So it's, you know, it's basis, very basis is yin-yin. And duality, duality is about bonding, the replicating, you know, the continuation of, and these themes get expressed through the planets, through the moon, through the nodes. And every single year, the planets are going to go through these gates in the same way. But not at the same time because we're spiraling in space and time. So there's a couple of ways you can approach it. Beth is asking, do you simply track the sun earth and the personality or more than that? You can do a couple of different ways. You can pick a particular open center in your design, and track all of the planets and the nodes through that center and see what happens. Based on what the program is bringing. Or you can track a particular object like the sun, earth, the moon, you know, some of the faster moving ones. I mean, if you're tracking Pluto, it's in the same gate for years. So it becomes a little more challenging. But the sun and the earth are going to go through the entire wheel in a year. So year after year after year, it's the same pattern. Now, if like me, you happen to love the moon, the moon goes through this pattern every month. 28.5 days. So the moon is another way. And we're actually doing, we do a course on using the moon for deconditioning. And it's not just for reflectors. So that's another way of approaching it. Also we do share with everybody once a month the look ahead for the month. And it's a way that you can begin to look at all of the influences for the upcoming month and then sit down with your chart and track what some of those influences can have impact on you. Like when the nodes are in the 61-62, what's that like for you? In the lecture, it's kind of like the finger pointing at what those themes are. We don't know for you what those themes are going to be, how they affect your design. You know, if you have the 24 or you have the 17 or maybe it's completely open or whatever, it's going to affect you differently than any other person on the planet. So depending on what your design is, experiment. And that's in essence what we're talking about. We want people to use to be able to use this data to deepen their experiment. And the experiment is becoming yourself. Now a Cathy S, why did the crystal start with the quarter mutation when the HD? The real begins with the 13th gate. You're talking about what is she talking about? Quarter of initiation. With the 13th gate? Yeah. Yeah. 13. Oh, the third, oh, I'm just thinking about something else. Okay. So if we look here in the first gate, because of the six Yang lines, the mind, because the mind is Yang, Yang, the body is Yin, Yin. This is the most mental of all gates in essence. Now why it's connected to the first crystal bundle, that's one of the mysteries that raw, you know. Okay. So look at it and maybe we could just explore this logically. Okay. So this is a mental program. The program is a mental program. You get that. The program is a mental program. So naturally it's going to start with the mental, the mental, the most mental aspect. Now what you're hearing in the way in which I express this is my one, because I express things like that. He's an expert. But what I'm saying to you is, you know, that's something to take a look at. The other part of it is, and for me, this has always been the most fascinating thing about this, is that mutation is about transformation. And transformation is about from death to rebirth, from rebirth to death. You know, and it's like that's where the change takes place. It doesn't take place, quote unquote, in the process of life. It takes place when the life terminates and comes back. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, raw may have a very specific reason that none of us really know. That's always a possibility. He is a manifesto after all. The voice may have said, this is where it starts. I don't know. Okay. So it's noon. Any other questions before we sign off for this lecture? Okay. Well, thank you very much for participating, you know, for involving yourself in this process that it's a very, it's a very deep rabbit hole. Yes. And we're just exposing the escape rights. Okay. So next week we'll meet on the first day of the quarter of mutation. So nothing to pay attention to. I'm probably not going to be here because I'm going to be having my knee operated on tomorrow. So I may or may not be here. But I'll be here. Leola seems to want me to be here. Uh-huh. Yeah. Okay folks. Bye for now. Bye.